\section{Question 1}

Dennis robbed a bank and fled in a getaway car driven by an accomplice, not realizing that one of the bundles of money he took had the serial numbers recorded and had a tiny tracking device attached to the wrapper. The bank contacted its security consultant, who obtained portable tracking equipment and was able to trace the bundle of money to Dennis's house. The police were notified and they arrived at Dennis's house a few hours after the robbery. They knocked on the door and announced their presence, and saw someone matching the description of the robber in the hallway. They entered and arrested the suspect, Dennis, and then conducted a protective sweep of the house for the accomplice, who they believed had a gun. They did not find him, but while checking a closet they discovered several of the bundles of money from the bank and a gun Dennis had used in the robbery. The police also discovered two clear plastic bags of what appeared to be marijuana sitting on top of a dresser. They seized the money, the gun, and the two bags; later testing confirmed that the substance in the bags was marijuana.

Dennis was charged with the bank robbery and with possession of the marijuana. At a preliminary hearing, he moves to suppress introduction of the money, gun, and marijuana.

The court should:

(A) Grant the motion as to the marijuana but not as to the money or the gun because the money and gun were found as a result of the protective sweep for Dennis's accomplice.

(B) Grant the motion as to the money and the gun but not as to the marijuana because the bags containing the marijuana were clearly visible on the dresser during the search.

(C) Grant the motion as to all of the evidence seized.

(D) Deny the motion as to all of the evidence seized. 

\section{Questions 2-3} are based on the following fact situation:

In a writing signed by both parties, Paul Plannah, a renowned architect, agreed for a fee of \$ 25,000$ to design and supervise construction of a new house for Phoebe Threedee, a famous sculptor, the fee to be paid upon completion of the house. Plannah and Threedee got along poorly and, when the design plans were about two-thirds complete, they had a heated argument over the proper location of a marble staircase. Hoping to avoid such encounters, Plannah, without Threedee's knowledge, assigned to Donna Drafty, a newly licensed architect practicing solo, "all of my rights and duties under my design and construction-supervision contract with Threedee." Drafty expressly promised Plannah to carry out the work to the best of Drafty's ability.


\section{2} For this question only, assume that Threedee, on learning of the assignment, refused to allow Drafty to proceed as architect and brought an action against Plannah to compel him to resume and complete performance of the contract.

Is Threedee entitled to such relief?
(A) Yes, because Plannah's services under the contract are unique.
(B) Yes, because Plannah has personally completed two-thirds of the design work.
(C) No, because the Plannah-Threedee contract is one for personal services by Plannah.
(D) No, because Plannah effectively delegated his remaining duties under the Plannah-Threedee contract to Drafty.



\section{3} For this question only, assume that Threedee allowed Drafty to proceed with the design work, but that Drafty, without legal excuse, abandoned the project shortly after construction began.

Which of the following legal conclusions are correct?

I. Plannah is liable to Threedee for legal damages, if any, caused by Drafty's default.

II. Drafty is liable to Threedee for legal damages, if any, caused by Drafty's default.

III. Threedee is indebted to Drafty, on a divisible contract theory, for a prorated portion of the agreed \$ 25,000$ architect's fee promised to Plannah.
(A) I. and II. only.
(B) I. and III. only.
(C) II. and III. only.
(D) I., II., and III.

\section{Question 4}

Telco, a local telephone company, negligently allowed one of its telephone poles, located between a street and a sidewalk, to become termite-ridden. Rhodes, who was intoxicated and driving at an excessive rate of speed, lost control of her car and hit the weakened telephone pole. One week later, the pole fell and struck Walker, a pedestrian who was walking on the sidewalk. The pole fell because of the combination of the force of the impact and the pole's termite-ridden condition.

If Walker asserts a claim against Telco and Rhodes, will Walker prevail?
(A) Yes, against Telco but not Rhodes.
(B) Yes, against Rhodes but not Telco.
(C) Yes, against Telco and Rhodes, each for one-half of his damages.
(D) Yes, against both Telco and Rhodes for the full amount of his damages.

\section{Question 5}

Percy was shopping in ValuMart, a large department store. ValuMart was remodeling its menswear department and had hired Contractor to do the work. Cora, a carpenter employed by Contractor, was working on the ValuMart job. When Cora left ValuMart to take her lunch break, she left a carpenter's level projecting out into one of the aisles. Before Cora returned from lunch, Percy came down that aisle and tripped over the level. Percy fell and struck his head on the sharp corner of a display case. Percy required hospitalization and sued ValuMart for his injuries.

Will Percy prevail in his suit against ValuMart?

(A) Yes, because Contractor's employee left the level in the aisle.

(B) Yes, if ValuMart's employees had a reasonable time to discover the level before Percy fell.

(C) No, because ValuMart's employees did not leave the level in the aisle.

(D) No, if ValuMart's employees were unaware that the level was in the aisle. 

\section{Questions 6-7} are based on the following fact situation:

In the recently enacted Fair Opportunity Act, the United States Congress provided, among other things, that an employer whose products are in any way used by or sold to the federal government must meet certain very specific standards for integration of its workforce and affirmative action programs. Both civil and criminal penalties are established for violation of the Act, and it permits private civil suits for injunctive relief or for damages to enforce its provisions.

The city of Davis, California also enacted a jobs opportunity ordinance effective the same year, requiring that any employer doing business with the city have a workforce consonant with the ethnic and gender composition of the population of the city. The local ordinance permits employers to apply for exemptions from its requirements if they can demonstrate that the pool of potential qualified employees has a different mix of ethnicity or gender than the general population. The population of Davis is approximately $55 \%$ female and $45 \%$ male, $75 \%$ white, $10 \%$ Asian, 7\% black, 7\% Hispanic, and $1 \%$ other ethnic backgrounds.

Watson Janitorial Service, a private employer located in the city of Davis, does contract cleaning and maintenance for both the local United States Department of Agriculture office and for the City Jail. Its workforce is $95 \%$ male, $55 \%$ black, $40 \%$ Hispanic, and $5 \%$ other ethnic backgrounds. The city of Davis notified the company that it would either have to bring its workforce into compliance with the local job opportunity ordinance or its contract with the City Jail would be terminated. The United States Department of Justice has notified Watson Janitorial that it meets the guidelines of the Fair Opportunity Act, and that the contract with the Department of Agriculture is not in jeopardy. 6. Watson Janitorial brings an action in state court to enjoin enforcement of the Davis ordinance. It argues that the local rule is invalid since it conflicts with the federal statute by creating more stringent standards. The trial court should rule:

(A) There is no conflict, since Congress intended only that the Fair Opportunity Act apply to employers who dealt exclusively with the federal government.

(B) There is no conflict, since Davis is permitted to impose more strict requirements to a local problem than those established by the federal government.

(C) The federal act preempts the local ordinance and thus the latter cannot be enforced.

(D) The federal act preempts the local ordinance only insofar as it attempts to regulate employers who do business with the federal government, so the ordinance may not be enforced only as to Watson Janitorial, but is otherwise valid.


\section{7} Assume for the purposes of this question only that the United States Department of Agriculture notifies Watson Janitorial that its workforce is in violation of the Fair Opportunity Act and that a referral will be made to the Department of Justice for prosecution unless the federal standards are met within six months. If Watson challenges the validity of the federal statute in court, what is the government's best response to the argument that Congress has exceeded its legitimate powers? I. The act is a valid enforcement of the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.

II. The act is a valid exercise of the commerce power.

III. The act is a valid exercise of the Enabling Clause of the Thirteenth Amendment.

IV. The act is a valid exercise of the federal police power.
(A) I. and III. only.
(B) II. and III. only.
(C) I. and III. only.
(D) II. and IV. only.

\section{Question 8}

Amp, an electrical contractor, sued Short, a homeowner. Amp alleged that Short refused to pay for extensive wiring repairs performed on Short's home by Wilson, an employee of Amp. Amp called Wilson to the stand as a witness. Wilson, under oath, testified that he did not perform any work at Short's home. Wilson also denied writing a letter to Lee telling Lee that Wilson was going to do electrical work on Short's house. Without releasing Wilson as a witness, Amp offers in evidence the letter written by Wilson to Lee.

If Wilson's letter to Lee is properly authenticated, the trial court should:
(A) Admit the letter for impeachment purposes only.
(B) Admit the letter as both substantive and impeachment evidence.
(C) Exclude the letter because a party may not impeach his own witness.
(D) Exclude the letter because it is inadmissible hearsay.

\section{Question 9}

In which of the following situations is Defendant most likely to be not guilty of the charge made?

(A) Believing that state law made it a crime to purchase Valium without a prescription, Defendant purchased without a prescription a certain quantity of Valium. Unknown to Defendant, the state legislature had repealed the statute, and Valium could be legally purchased without a prescription. Defendant is charged with attempting to purchase Valium without a prescription.

(B) While in the course of a fight, Defendant, intending to kill Stan, ran up and stabbed Stan from behind. Unknown to Defendant, Stan had been stabbed through the chest only seconds before by another participant in the fight, killing him instantly. Defendant is charged with attempted murder.

(C) Defendant misrepresented his identity to a garage in order to take possession of an automobile that had been left with the garage for repairs earlier that week. The owner of the garage was not deceived and refused to turn over possession. Defendant is charged with attempting to obtain property by false pretenses.

(D) Police arrested Robber as he was leaving a house where he had stolen a good deal of property. As part of a plea-bargain arrangement, Robber took the property to Defendant and offered to sell it. Defendant, believing the property to be stolen, purchased it. Defendant is charged with attempting to receive stolen property. 

\section{Question 10}

The city of Newtown adopted an ordinance providing that street demonstrations involving more than 15 persons may not be held in commercial areas during "rush" hours. "Exceptions" may be made to the prohibition "upon 24-hour advance application to and approval by the police department." The ordinance also imposes sanctions on any person "who shall, without provocation, use to or of another, and in his presence, opprobrious words or abusive language tending to cause a breach of the peace." No court has of yet interpreted the ordinance.

Which of the following is the strongest argument for the unconstitutionality of both parts of the ordinance on their faces?

(A) No type of prior restraint may be imposed on speech in public places.

(B) Laws, regulating by their terms expressive conduct or speech, may not be overbroad or unduly vague.

(C) The determination as to whether public gatherings may be lawfully held cannot be vested in the police.

(D) The right of association in public places without interference is ensured by the First and Fourteenth Amendments.

\section{Question 11}

Truffle agreed in writing to lease a restaurant site in a newly constructed mall from Lentil, the owner of the property. The term of the tenancy was two years, and rent was payable in monthly installments at the beginning of each month. At the end of the second year, there had been no discussions between Truffle and Lentil regarding renewal or termination. Truffle did not vacate the premises at the end of the term; instead, she sent a check for the next month's rent to Lentil. Lentil cashed the check after the term had expired but informed Truffle that his acceptance of the check did not mean that he was going to renew the lease or let Truffle stay. At the end of that month, Lentil seeks advice on whether he can evict Truffle.

How should Lentil be advised to proceed?

(A) Lentil must give Truffle a full 30 days' notice before beginning eviction proceedings because a month-to-month periodic tenancy has been created.

(B) Lentil may begin eviction proceedings as soon as the additional month has expired.

(C) Lentil may not evict Truffle for 11 months and must give six months' notice before beginning eviction proceedings because a year-to-year periodic tenancy has been created.

(D) Lentil may not evict Truffle for 11 months but need not give any notice prior to eviction because a tenancy for years for a term of one year has been created. 

\section{Question 12}

Dirk broke into Vera's house one night. As he started to stuff silverware into a sack, he was surprised by Vera, who had arrived home earlier than usual. Dirk struck Vera on the head with a candlestick and tied her up. He finished filling his sack and left.

The police discovered Vera several hours later and rushed her to the hospital. Dirk was apprehended by the police early the following morning with the loot still in his possession. He was taken to police headquarters, given Miranda warnings, and asked if he wished to make a statement about the prior evening's events. The police did not mention that Vera had been seriously injured and was in the hospital. Dirk said he understood his rights and was willing to talk. He then admitted that he committed the burglary of Vera's house. The following day, Vera died from injuries caused by the blow to her head.

If, at Dirk's trial for murder, Dirk moves to prevent introduction of the confession into evidence, his motion should most probably be:

(A) Denied, because failure of the police to advise Dirk of Vera's condition was harmless error since felony murder does not require intent to kill or injure.

(B) Denied, because Dirk's waiver of his rights did not depend upon the nature of the charges that were later filed against him.

(C) Granted, because Dirk could not make a knowing and intelligent waiver unless he had information concerning Vera's condition.

(D) Granted, because the use of a confession to burglary in a prosecution for murder violates due process where the police withheld information about the potential seriousness of the offense.

\section{Question 13}

West, a witness in a contract case, testified on direct examination that four people attended a meeting. When asked to identify them, she gave the names of three, but despite trying was unable to remember the name of the fourth person.

The attorney who called her as a witness seeks to show her his handwritten notes of the part of his pretrial interview with her in which she provided all four names.

The trial court is likely to consider the showing of the notes taken as:
(A) A proper attempt to introduce recorded recollection.
(B) A proper attempt to refresh West's recollec- tion.
(C) An improper attempt to lead the witness.
(D) An improper attempt to support West's credibility. 

\section{Question 14}

Buyer, a retail seller of lawn and garden equipment, entered into a written contract with Seller, a manufacturer of wheelbarrows. The terms of the contract call for Seller to deliver 100 fifteen-pound capacity, red wheelbarrows to Buyer by March 1. On February 28, Buyer received from Seller 90 fifteen-pound capacity, red wheelbarrows and 10 twenty-pound capacity, red wheelbarrows. A letter accompanying the shipment stated, "We no longer make fifteen-pound capacity wheelbarrows. We are sending the last 90 we have in stock along with 10 twenty-pound capacity wheelbarrows. The twenty-pound capacity were sent as an accommodation to you." Which of the following correctly states the rights of Buyer?

I. Buyer can reject the entire shipment.

II. Buyer can accept the 90 conforming wheelbarrows, reject the 10 nonconforming wheelbarrows, and sue Seller for damages.

III. Buyer can accept the entire shipment and sue Seller for damages.

(A) Only I. and II. are correct.

(B) Only I. is correct.

(C) I., II., and III. are correct.

(D) Only II. is correct.

\section{Question 15}

The German-made Doppelpferd, featuring sleek styling and remarkable fuel efficiency, is the most popular automobile in the United States. Its United States sales are booming, and the average retail markup in such sales is $30 \%$. Hardsell Motors, Inc., a franchised Doppelpferd dealer in the United States, contracted with Shift to sell him a new Doppelpferd for \$ 9,000$ cash, the sale to be consummated after delivery to Hardsell of the car, which Hardsell ordered from the manufacturer specifically for Shift. The signed retail contractual document was a form drafted by Hardsell's lawyer, and Shift did not question or object to any of its terms, including the price inserted by Hardsell. When the car arrived from Germany, Shift repudiated the contract. Hardsell at once sold the car for \$ 9,000$ cash to Karbuff, for whom Hardsell had also ordered from the manufacturer a Doppelpferd identical to Shift's.

In an action against Shift for breach of contract, Hardsell will probably recover:
(A) \$ 9,000$ minus what it cost Hardsell to purchase the car from the manufacturer.
(B) \$ 9,000$ minus the wholesale price of an identical Doppelpferd in the local whole- sale market among dealers.
(C) Nominal damages only because Hardsell resold the car to Karbuff without lowering the retail price.
(D) Nothing, because the parties' agreement was an adhesion contract and therefore unconscionable. 

\section{Question 16}

Pike sued Digger, the contractor who constructed Pike's house, for breach of warranty of habitability. At trial, in cross-examination of Pike, Digger's attorney asked whether Pike had sued another contractor 30 years earlier, claiming similar defects in another house built for Pike. The question was not objected to and Pike answered that she had had some "water problems" with the first house she ever purchased, but no suit was filed.

Digger then called Wirth, the contractor of 30 years earlier, to testify that Pike had brought suit against Wirth for defects in the earlier house, many of which were like those now claimed to be found in the home Digger built, but that the case was settled without trial.

The trial court should rule Wirth's offered testimony:

(A) Admissible as proper impeachment since Pike will have an opportunity to deny or explain Wirth's statement.

(B) Admissible, because Pike failed to object to Digger's questions on cross-examination relative to the prior suit.

(C) Inadmissible, because the best evidence of the former suit is the court record.

(D) Inadmissible, because its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger that it will confuse the issues and waste time.



\section{Questions 17-18} are based on the following fact situation:

Hammond decided to kill his wife by poisoning her. He asked his friend, Jordan, a pharmacist, to obtain some curare, a deadly poison, and to give it to him without recording the transaction. Because Jordan suspected Hammond's motive, she supplied Hammond with a small quantity of Marvane, an antibiotic, instead of curare. Marvane is harmless if administered in small quantities, except for the less than $1 \%$ of the population who are allergic to the drug. Hammond injected his wife with the Marvane while she slept. She was allergic to the drug and died from the injection. Jordan was distraught and confessed the entire affair to the police, explaining that she had failed to report Hammond's conduct to the authorities because she feared that it would end their friendship if she did.


\section{17} Jordan is an accomplice to:
(A) Murder.
(B) Manslaughter.
(C) Criminally negligent homicide.
(D) No degree of criminal homicide.


\section{18} In a common law jurisdiction, Hammond is guilty of:
(A) Murder only.
(B) Murder and conspiracy.
(C) Attempted murder only.
(D) Attempted murder and conspiracy. 

\section{Question 19}

Abco developed a new drug, $\mathrm{ZB}$, for treatment of Wegener's disease. Abco extensively tested $\mathrm{ZB}$ for several years on animals and human volunteers and had observed no undesirable side effects. The Federal Drug Administration ("FDA") then approved ZB for sale as a prescription drug.

Five other drug companies, each acting independently, developed drugs identical to $\mathrm{ZB}$. Each of these drugs was also approved by the FDA for sale as a prescription drug. True Blue Drug, a wholesaler, bought identically shaped pills from all six of the manufacturers and sold the pills to drugstores as Wegener's $\mathrm{X}$.

This drug had a long-delayed side effect. Sons of male users of Wegener's $X$ are sterile. One such son, Crane, brought an action against Abco for his damages. Abco, through True Blue Drug, supplied about $10 \%$ of the Wegener's X sold in the state where Crane lived. It is not possible to establish which of the five companies supplied the particular pills that Crane's father took.

If Crane asserts a claim against Abco based on strict liability in tort, which of the following will be a decisive question in determining whether Crane will prevail?

(A) Does the res ipsa loquitur doctrine apply?

(B) Can liability be imposed on Abco without proof that Abco knew that the drug had an undesirable side effect?

(C) Is Abco relieved of liability by the FDA approval of the drug?

(D) Can liability be imposed on Abco without showing that its pills were used by Crane's father?



\section{Questions 20-21} are based on the following fact situation:

Lightpost, Inc., the owner of a retail outlet mall, leased one of its retail units to Shirts by Sam ("Shirts"), a chain selling casual apparel, for a period of five years. The lease agreement provided that Shirts would pay to Lightpost, as additional rent, a share of maintenance costs for the construction and upkeep of the parking lots and other common areas in the mall, and Lightpost would be responsible for maintaining these areas. The maintenance fee was calculated based on total square footage of each unit and amounted to \$ 1,000$ a month for the unit leased by Shirts. The agreement also permitted assignments and subleases. For four years, Shirts operated its apparel store and paid all rent and maintenance fees. At the end of the fourth year, Shirts properly assigned the lease to Shoes by Sheila ("Shoes"), a discount shoe outlet.


\section{20} Assume for purposes of this question only that, at the time it assigned the lease, Shirts owed \$3,000 in maintenance fees for the last three months of its occupancy, and that Shoes paid its rent but did not pay any maintenance fees to Lightpost for the first six months. Shoes then abandoned the property. Lightpost made reasonable efforts during the last six months of the term to relet the unit but was unable to do so. After applying the security deposit to satisfy the balance of the rent, Lightpost wishes to collect the unpaid maintenance fees during the last 15 months of the lease, totaling \$ 15,000$. Who is liable for those fees and in what amount?
(A) Shirts and Shoes are jointly and severally liable for the \$ 15,000$ in fees.
(B) Shirts is solely liable for \$ 3,000$ in fees, and Shirts and Shoes are jointly and severally liable for \$ 12,000$ in fees.
(C) Shirts is solely liable for \$ 3,000$ in fees, Shoes is solely liable for \$ 6,000$ in fees, and Shirts and Shoes are jointly and severally liable for \$ 6,000$ in fees.
(D) Shirts is solely liable for \$ 3,000$ in fees, and Shoes is solely liable for \$ 12,000$ in fees.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE 21. Assume for purposes of this question only that, shortly after Shirts assigned the lease to Shoes, Lightpost sold the mall to Lakeview, Ltd. Lakeview took subject to all of the leases, including Shoes's lease, but did not assume any of Lightpost's obligations under it. Five months after the sale, a contractor originally hired by Lightpost who was reconstructing the parking lot in front of Shoes's store walked off the job because he had not received any progress payments from either Lightpost or Lakeview during the past five months. After notifying Lightpost and Lakeview and receiving no response, Shoes agreed to pay the contractor \$ 20,000$ up front to finish the job so that the store would have parking for the holiday shopping season. Shoes then withheld its rent payment of \$ 2,000$ for that month and brought an action against Lightpost and Lakeview to recover the balance of the payment to the contractor. Shoes had paid its maintenance fees in advance for the rest of its term.

Are either Lightpost or Lakeview liable to Shoes?

(A) Neither Lakeview nor Lightpost is liable to Shoes because Shoes is in breach of its covenant to pay rent.

(B) Lightpost is liable to Shoes, but Lakeview is not, because Lakeview did not assume Lightpost's obligations.

(C) Lakeview is liable to Shoes, but Lightpost is not, because the sale by Lightpost to Lakeview severed any privity of estate between Lightpost and Shoes.

(D) Both Lakeview and Lightpost are liable to Shoes because the maintenance duties constitute an independent covenant that is part of the lease and that runs with land.

\section{Question 22}

To secure an express lane on the information superhighway, the federal government contracted with a number of communications utilities to install fiberoptic communication lines between major federal offices across the country. The utilities, which maintained ownership of the lines, contracted with the federal government to install the lines on a "cost plus fixed fee" basis, whereby all installation costs would be reimbursed by the government. One such line was installed in State Yellow's capital city, Plains, where the Department of the Interior maintained its western regional office. State Yellow imposes a tax on the installation of all communication lines in the state, including fiberoptic cable lines. It seeks to impose the tax on the line running to the federal office.

Will the state be permitted to impose the tax?
(A) Yes, because the tax is indirect and nondis- criminatory.
(B) Yes, because the tax is a valid exercise of state power under the Tenth Amendment.
(C) No, because the tax burdens the activities of the federal government.
(D) No, because the activity taxed involves interstate commerce. 

\section{Question 23}

In an action by Patrick against David, one of the issues is whether David is a licensed psychotherapist. Normally, the names of all licensed psychotherapists are registered with the office of the State Department of Professional Registrations. Patrick wishes to introduce a certified document, signed by the chief registrar of the Department, stating that an examination of the Department's rolls does not disclose David's name.

Should the document be admitted?
(A) Yes, because a statement of absence from public record is admissible.
(B) Yes, but only if the chief registrar is un- available.
(C) No, because the document is hearsay not within an exception.
(D) No, because the document is not self- authenticating.

\section{Question 24}

While on a hiking trip during the late fall, Page arrived toward the end of the day at a clearing where several similar cabins were located, none of which was occupied. One of the cabins belonged to Levin, Page's friend, who had given Page permission to use it. Page entered one of the cabins, which she thought was Levin's, and prepared to spend the night. In fact the cabin was owned, not by Levin, but by Dwyer.

When the night turned cold, Page started a fire in the stove. Unknown to Page, there was a defect in the stove that allowed carbon monoxide fumes to escape into the cabin. During the night the fumes caused serious injury to Page.

If Page asserts a claim against Dwyer for her injury, will Page recover?
(A) Yes, if Dwyer knew that the stove was defective.
(B) Yes, if Dwyer could have discovered the defect in the stove by a reasonable inspec- tion.
(C) No, because Dwyer had no reason to anticipate Page's presence in the cabin.
(D) No, unless Page needed to use the cabin for her own protection. 

\section{Question 25}

On a wholly random basis, a state agency has given a few probationary employees who were not rehired at the end of their probationary period a statement of reasons and an opportunity for a hearing; but the agency has very rarely done so. No statute or rule of the agency required such a statement of reasons or a hearing.

The employment of Masters, a probationary employee, was terminated without a statement of reasons or an opportunity for a hearing. The agency did not even consider whether it should give him either.

A suit by Masters requesting a statement of reasons and a hearing will probably be:

(A) Successful, on the grounds that failure to give Masters reasons and an opportunity for a hearing constituted a bill of attainder.

(B) Successful, on the grounds that an agency's inconsistent practices, even if unintentional, deny adversely affected persons the equal protection of the laws.

(C) Unsuccessful, because Masters does not have a right to be rehired that is protected by procedural due process.

(D) Unsuccessful, because the conditions of state employment are matters reserved to the states by the Tenth Amendment.

\section{Question 26}

Marvin Manufacturing Company was in the business of making copper tubing. Golde Industries telephoned Marvin's sales department and placed an order for 10,000 linear feet of copper tubing at a sale price of \$ 2$ per foot. The tubing was to be used in the production of a custom order for one of Golde's customers. Marvin installed special equipment for the manufacture of the tubing to Golde's specifications and had completed a portion of the order when Golde again telephoned the sales department. This time, however, Golde canceled its order, saying it no longer had need of the tubing because its customer had been declared bankrupt, and refused to pay for the order.

If Marvin sues for breach, it will:

(A) Win, because the contract is fully enforceable.

(B) Win, because the contract is enforceable to the extent of the portion of the order completed.

(C) Lose, because a contract for the sale of goods over \$ 500$ must be in writing.

(D) Lose, because the parol evidence rule would preclude testimony about the initial telephone call.

\section{Question 27}

Police investigating a homicide had probable cause to believe that Drake had committed it. They then learned from a reliable informant that, a short while ago, Drake had gone to Trent's house to obtain a false driver's license from Trent, a convicted forger. Believing that Drake might still be there, the police, without obtaining a warrant, went to Trent's house. They entered the house and found Drake hiding in the basement. He was arrested and given his Miranda warnings. At the police station, he confessed to the homicide.

At a preliminary hearing, Drake's attorney contends that the confession should be suppressed on Fourth Amendment grounds.

Is the court likely to agree?

(A) Yes, because the police did not have a search warrant to enter Trent's house and there were no exigent circumstances.

(B) Yes, because the police did not have an arrest warrant for Drake and there were no exigent circumstances.

(C) No, because a reliable informant told police that Drake was in Trent's house.

(D) No, because the police had probable cause to arrest Drake. 

\section{Question 28}

All of the deeds for the lots in the 5100 block of Elm Street contained a restrictive covenant requiring that all houses built on the lots be set back a minimum of 50 feet from the sidewalk. Local zoning regulations required that all homes in the area of the 5100 block of Elm Street be set back a minimum of 35 feet from the sidewalk. Dampier purchased a lot on the 5100 block of Elm Street on which it would be possible to build a home with a 50-foot setback. However, the lot was of an unusual shape, and Dampier applied to the city zoning commission asking for a variance allowing him to build a house set back 30 feet from the sidewalk. In his petition, Dampier cited the unusual shape of the lot and asserted that it would cause hardship for him to build in compliance with the 35-foot setback required by the zoning regulations. The zoning commission granted Dampier the variance. Nora, whose home was located at 5130 Elm Street, noticed surveyors putting up ropes 30 feet from the sidewalk on Dampier's lot, and she discovered that Dampier planned to build a home with only a 30 -foot setback.

Nora seeks to enforce the restrictive covenant and brings suit to enjoin Dampier from building a residence with a setback of less than 50 feet. Who will prevail?

(A) Dampier, because zoning regulations take precedence over restrictive covenants as a matter of public policy.

(B) Dampier, because equity will not impose a hardship.

(C) Nora, because Dampier will be unjustly enriched if he is permitted to build a 30 foot setback.

(D) Nora, because a zoning variance does not affect the enforcement of a restrictive covenant.



\section{Questions 29-30} are based on the following fact situation:

On January 1, Awl and Howser agreed in writing that Awl would build a house on Howser's lot according to Howser's plans and specifications for \$ 60,000$, the work to commence on April 1. Howser agreed to make an initial payment of \$ 10,000$ on April 1, and to pay the balance upon completion of the work.

On February 1, Awl notified Howser that he (Awl) would lose money on the job at that price, and would not proceed with the work unless Howser would agree to increase the price to \$ 90,000$. Howser thereupon, without notifying Awl, agreed in writing with Gutter for Gutter, commencing April 1, to build the house for \$ 75,000$, which was the fair market cost of the work to be done.

On April 1, both Awl and Gutter showed up at the building site to begin work, Awl telling Howser that he had decided to "take the loss" and would build the house for \$ 60,000$ as originally agreed. Howser dismissed Awl and allowed Gutter to begin work on the house.


\section{29} In a contract action by Awl against Howser, which of the following would the court decide under the prevailing American view?

(A) Howser will win because Awl in legal effect committed a total breach of contract.

(B) Howser will win because Gutter's contract price was \$ 15,000$ lower than the \$ 90,000$ demanded by Awl on February 1.

(C) Awl will win because Howser did not tell him before April 1 about the contract with Gutter.



\section{ Awl will win because he attempted to perform the contract as originally agreed} For this question only, assume that Awl is liable to Howser for breach of contract and also assume the following additional facts: Gutter finished the house on schedule and then showed Howser that he (Gutter) had spent \$ 85,000$ on the job. Howser thereupon paid Gutter the full balance of their contract price plus an additional \$ 10,000$, so that Gutter would not lose money.

In a contract action by Howser against Awl, Howser will recover:

(A) The difference between the fair market value of the completed house and Awl's original contract price.

(B) \$30,000, the difference between Awl's original contract price and the amount Awl demanded on February 1.

(C) \$25,000, the difference between Awl's original contract price and the total amount Howser paid Gutter for building the house.

(D) \$ 15,000$, the difference between Awl's original contract price and Gutter's contract price.

\section{Question 31}

Benjamin, a foreign correspondent, wished to purchase Whiteacre. Smith, the owner of Whiteacre, was not yet sure he wished to sell the property. He was waiting to see if his bid on another parcel was going to be accepted. Before Smith could make up his mind, Benjamin was assigned to cover an ethnic conflict in eastern Europe that was escalating into a war. Prior to his departure, Benjamin gave his attorney, Lenora, \$ 100,000$ and his power of attorney. He instructed Lenora that, should Whiteacre be put up for sale, she was authorized to: offer up to \$ 100,000$ for it, enter into a binding contract to purchase it on Benjamin's behalf, and if he did not return in time, she was authorized to close on the property. In early January, Smith put Whiteacre on the market. Lenora offered \$ 75,000$ for it, which Smith readily accepted. On January 15, Lenora, on Benjamin's behalf, entered into a written contract to purchase Whiteacre for \$ 75,000$. Closing was set for February 15 . During this time, Lenora heard nothing from Benjamin. When he had not returned by the date of closing, Lenora attended the closing and tendered the \$ 75,000$. Smith tendered a deed made out to Benjamin as the grantee.

On February 20, news was received that Benjamin had been killed by a stray bullet on January 14. Benjamin's will left his entire estate to his niece, Nellie. In the meantime, Smith has had someone offer him \$ 150,000$ for Whiteacre. Having heard of Benjamin's death, Smith believes the conveyance to Benjamin is invalid. Smith brings a suit to quiet title to Whiteacre.

The court will most likely find that the owner of Whiteacre is:
(A) Nellie, because Lenora held the deed on constructive trust for Benjamin's estate.
(B) Nellie, because of the operation of the doctrine of equitable conversion.
(C) Smith, because a deed to a nonexistent person is void and conveys no title.
(D) Smith, because the risk of loss is on the buyer. 

\section{Question 32}

Patricia sued Doris for injuries suffered when her car collided in an intersection with one driven by Doris. At trial, Patricia testified that she had had the right-of-way over Doris to enter the intersection. Doris did not cross-examine. Patricia then called Wendy to testify that, shortly after the collision, as she pulled Patricia from the car, Wendy heard Patricia say, "I think I'm dying! Didn't the other driver see I had the right-of-way?" Wendy's testimony was admitted over defense counsel's objections. On appeal from a verdict for Patricia, Doris challenges the admission of Wendy's testimony.

Should the trial court's ruling be upheld?
(A) Yes, because Patricia's statement was made under belief of impending death.
(B) Yes, because Patricia's statement was an excited utterance.
(C) No, because Patricia's credibility had not been attacked.
(D) No, because Patricia's belief that she had the right-of-way had already been estab- lished without contradiction.

\section{Question 33}

There is high and persistent unemployment in the industrialized state of Green. Its legislature therefore enacted a statute requiring every business with annual sales in Green of over \$ 1$ million to purchase each year goods and/or services in Green equal in value to at least half of its sales in Green.

Which of the following parties most clearly has standing to contest the constitutionality of this statute of Green in federal court?

(A) A business in another state that supplies from that other state $95 \%$ of the goods and services bought by a corporation that has annual sales in Green of \$ 20$ million.

(B) A corporation selling \$ 300,000$ worth of goods in Green but presently purchasing only \$ 10,000$ in goods and services in Green. (C) The governor of an adjacent state on behalf of the state and its residents.

(D) The owner of high-grade, secured bonds issued by a corporation with sales in Green of \$ 10$ million that currently purchases only \$ 1$ million in goods and services in Green.



\section{Questions 34-35} are based on the following fact situation:

Jaywalking (crossing a street outside of a crosswalk or not at an intersection) is punishable by a fine in Metropolis. Bert, who had lived in Metropolis all of his 67 years, was out windowshopping with his wife, Ruth, also 67 , when he saw a friend across the street at a diner they both frequented. Telling Ruth that he would be right back, he saw that there were no cars nearby and so strode briskly across the street in the middle of the block. As he reached the other sidewalk, a police officer who had been checking parked cars for parking violations stepped up to Bert and said, "Hold it buddy, let's see your driver's license," and then reached for her citation book. Bert, a city dweller from birth, had always walked or used public transportation, had never learned to drive, and did not have a driver's license. When he told the officer that he did not have a driver's license, she said, "All right, I'm taking you in," and seized his wrist, twisting it up and behind him in a personnel control lock. A black belt in judo, Bert easily slipped the officer's grasp. "You asked for it," she then growled, and pulled her baton from her belt. When she attempted to strike Bert, he moved swiftly to the side, chopped at her arm, and caused the baton to fall from her grasp to the pavement. At that point two other officers arrived on the scene and arrested Bert. Ruth watched the entire episode from across the street and became greatly distressed. 34. Bert brings an action against the first officer for battery. What will be the probable outcome of this litigation?
(A) He will lose, because he struck the officer.
(B) He will lose, because the offense was committed in the officer's presence.
(C) He will win, unless he is found guilty of jaywalking.
(D) He will win, because the officer was not privileged to arrest him.


\section{35} Ruth also sues the officer, alleging intentional infliction of emotional distress. Will she recover?
(A) No, unless the officer knew that Ruth and Bert were husband and wife.
(B) No, if the officer did not know that Ruth was watching from across the street.
(C) Yes, because the officer's conduct regarding Bert was extreme and outrageous.
(D) Yes, because the officer's conduct caused Ruth to be severely emotion- ally disturbed.



\section{Questions 36-37} are based on the following fact situation:

One night after work, Dunken stopped in at a bar next to his place of employment to have a few drinks before heading home. While there, he became intoxicated. Upon leaving the bar, Dunken decided that he would drive home rather than walk. Dunken went next door to a used car lot to take a car to drive home. However, Dunken discovered that there were no keys in any of the cars. He then broke into the main office of the used car lot where he surmised correctly that the keys would be kept. As he left the office with keys to one of the cars, Dunken saw a security guard coming toward him. Dunken pushed the guard to the side as he ran past. The guard fell back, hit his head on the pavement, and died. Dunken then climbed into the car and drove away. On his way home, he was so intoxicated that he missed his exit. Making an illegal u-turn to go back, he struck a car legally parked on the side of the road, killing its occupant. Relevant statutes extend burglary to include buildings not used as a dwelling. First degree murder is defined as "the premeditated and intentional killing of another or a killing during commission of a rape, robbery, burglary, or arson." Second degree murder is defined as all murders that are not first degree murder.


\section{36} If Dunken is charged with first degree murder for the death of the security guard, the court should charge the jury on the issue of the defense of intoxication that:
(A) Voluntary intoxication is no defense to the crime of first degree murder as defined by the statute.
(B) Voluntary intoxication is a defense to the crime of first degree murder if Dunken would not have killed the security guard but for the intoxication.
(C) Voluntary intoxication is a defense to the crime of first degree murder if it prevented Dunken from forming the intent to commit a burglary.


\section{ Voluntary intoxication is a defense to first degree murder if it prevented Dunken from forming the intent to kill the security guard} If Dunken is charged with homicide for the death of the occupant of the parked car, the most serious crime for which Dunken can be convicted is:
(A) First degree murder.
(B) Second degree murder.
(C) Involuntary manslaughter based on criminal negligence.
(D) Involuntary manslaughter based on unlawful conduct.

\section{Question 38}

The High National Grasslands is owned by the United States and is located in the center of a large western state. Acting pursuant to a federal statute authorizing such action, the United States Bureau of Land Management leased the grazing rights in the High National Grasslands to ranchers located nearby. Grazingland Company owns a vast amount of rangeland adjacent to the High National Grasslands and leases its land for livestock grazing purposes to the same ranchers, but at prices higher than those charged by the Bureau. Grazingland Company sued the Bureau in an appropriate federal district court to restrain the Bureau from competing with that company by leasing the High National Grasslands.

Which of the following constitutional provisions may most easily and directly be used to justify the federal statute authorizing this leasing program of the Bureau of Land Management?
(A) The General Welfare Clause of Article I, Section 8.
(B) The Federal Property Clause of Article IV, Section 3.
(C) The Commerce Clause of Article I, Section 8.
(D) The Supremacy Clause of Article VI.

\section{Question 39}

In Peck's antitrust suit against manufacturers of insulation, Peck's interrogatories asked for information concerning total sales of insulation by each of the defendant manufacturers in a particular year. The defendants replied to the interrogatories by referring Peck to the Insulation Manufacturer's Annual Journal for the information.

If, at trial, Peck offers the annual as evidence of the sales volume, this evidence is:
(A) Admissible, as an adoptive admission of the defendants.
(B) Admissible, as a business record.
(C) Inadmissible, as hearsay not within any exception.
(D) Inadmissible, as lacking sufficient authenti- cation. 

\section{Question 40}

Farmer's Garden Foods ("FGF") was a manufacturer of quality red cheese made from imported yaks' milk. In a written agreement between FGF and Gourmet Mart ("GM"), a retail seller of fine quality foods, FGF agreed to "sell all output of FGF red cheese to GM," and GM agreed to "sell FGF red cheese exclusively." The agreement went on to state that GM would pay \$ 150$ for each 10 -wheel container of red cheese ordered from FGF.

Under the above facts, what are the relative obligations of the parties?

(A) FGF has to sell all of its output to GM; GM has to buy all of FGF's output.

(B) FGF has to sell all of its output to GM; GM has to sell exclusively FGF red cheese.

(C) FGF has to sell all of its output to GM; GM has to sell exclusively FGF red cheese but it does not have to buy any.

(D) FGF has to sell all of its output to GM; GM has to buy all of FGF's output and has to sell exclusively FGF red cheese.

\section{Question 41}

Constance owned Greenacre in fee simple. She executed two instruments in the proper form of deeds. The first instrument purported to convey an undivided one-half interest in Greenacre to Henry and his wife, Audrey, as joint tenants with right of survivorship. The second instrument purported to convey an undivided one-half interest in Greenacre to Susan, the only child of Henry. Susan was 13 years old at the time. The common law joint tenancy is unmodified by statute. No actual consideration was paid for the deeds. Constance handed the two deeds to Henry. Henry promptly and properly recorded the deed to himself and Audrey and put the deed to his daughter, Susan, in a safe-deposit box without recording it.

The same year, Henry, Audrey, and Susan were on a vacation when the plane in which they were flying went down, and all three were killed simultaneously. Henry, Audrey, and Susan died intestate. The applicable statute in the jurisdictions provides that "when title to property on its devolution depends on priority of death and there is insufficient evidence that the persons have died otherwise than simultaneously, the property of each person shall be disposed of as if he had survived." An appropriate action was instituted by the heirs of Henry, Audrey, and Susan. Constance, who is not an heir of any of the deceased, was a party to the action.

The court should determine that title to Greenacre is:
(A) Entirely in Constance.
(B) One-half in the heirs of Henry and one-half in the heirs of Audrey.
(C) One-half in Constance, one-quarter in the heirs of Henry, and one-quarter in the heirs of Audrey.
(D) One-half in the heirs of Susan, one-quarter in the heirs of Henry, and one-quarter in the heirs of Audrey. 

\section{Question 42}

Argus Corporation is privately owned and incorporated in the state of Kiowa. It contracted with the United States to construct a dam across the Big Sandy River in the state of Arapahoe. The state of Arapahoe imposed a gross receipts tax on all business conducted within the state. Arapahoe sued Argus Corporation to collect that tax on the receipts Argus received under this federal contract. No federal statutes or administrative rules are applicable, and the contract between the United States and the Argus Corporation does not mention state taxation.

The court should hold the state tax, as applied here, to be:

(A) Constitutional, because a state has exclusive jurisdiction over all commercial transactions executed wholly within its borders.

(B) Constitutional, because private contractors performing work under a federal contract are not immune in these circumstances from nondiscriminatory state taxation.

(C) Unconstitutional, because it violates the Supremacy Clause.

(D) Unconstitutional, because it imposes an undue burden on interstate commerce.

\section{Question 43}

Able, an attorney, sued Clinton, a client, for his fee, based on an agreed hourly rate. Clinton subpoenaed the attorney's time records for the days on which he purported to have worked for Clinton to show that Able had billed an impossible number of hours to Clinton and others on those days. Clinton's subpoena provided that any information concerning the matters handled for other clients be deleted or masked. Able moved to quash the subpoena on the ground of attorney-client privilege. The subpoena should be:

(A) Upheld, because the information about hours billed is not within the privilege.

(B) Upheld, because an attorney has no right to invoke his client's privilege without instructions from the client.

(C) Quashed, because an attorney is entitled to a right of privacy for the work product in his files.

(D) Quashed, because no permission was obtained from the other clients to divulge information from their files.



\section{Questions 44-45} are based on the following fact situation:

Torgeson, a prosperous widower, owned Fruitacre, a large tract of land located near Sunbelt City. Fruitacre was primarily used for extensive citrus orchards, but Torgeson was sure that rapidly growing Sunbelt City would expand toward Fruitacre, and that Fruitacre would be a prime tract for a residential subdivision within 20 years. Torgeson wanted to see his three grandchildren, Hubert (age 22), Dubert (age 17), and Luberta (age 15), benefit from the large price that he was sure Fruitacre would bring, but he was also concerned that the grandchildren be of sufficient maturity. Torgeson suggested to his only child, Diana, that he give her a life interest in Fruitacre, and that Diana's children take Fruitacre upon her death. Diana told Torgeson that she did not need the income from Fruitacre and would prefer that Torgeson give the land directly to Hubert, Dubert, and Luberta. Torgeson arrived at what he felt was a reasonable compromise, using his good friend, Fran (age 55), as the person to whom he conveyed the land. Torgeson's conveyance read, in pertinent part, as follows: "I convey Fruitacre to Fran for life, remainder to all of my grandchildren who ever attain the age of 25 , and if none of them attains such age, to the Sisters of Charity." 44. The grandchildren's interest can best be described as:
(A) A contingent remainder.
(B) A vested remainder.
(C) An executory interest.
(D) Nothing.


\section{45} The Sisters of Charity's interest can best be described as:
(A) A contingent remainder.
(B) A vested remainder subject to total divestment.
(C) An executory interest.
(D) Nothing.



\section{Questions 46-47} are based on the following fact situation:

Until 1954, the state of New Atlantic required segregation in all public and private schools, but all public schools are now desegregated. Other state laws, enacted before 1954 and continuing to the present, provide for free distribution of the same textbooks on secular subjects to students in all public and private schools. In addition, the state accredits schools and certifies teachers.

Little White School House, a private school that offers elementary and secondary education in the state, denies admission to all non-Caucasians. Stone School is a private school that offers religious instruction. 46. Which of the following is the strongest argument against the constitutionality of free distribution of textbooks to the students at the Little White School House?

(A) No legitimate educational function is served by the free distribution of textbooks.

(B) The state may not in any way aid private schools.

(C) The Constitution forbids private bias of any kind.

(D) Segregation is furthered by the distribution of textbooks to these students.


\section{47} Which of the following is the strongest argument in favor of the constitutionality of free distribution of textbooks to the students at Stone School?

(A) Private religious schools, like public nonsectarian schools, fulfill an important educational function.

(B) Religious instruction in private schools is not constitutionally objectionable.

(C) The purpose and effect of the free distribution of these textbooks is secular and does not entangle church and state.

(D) The Free Exercise Clause requires identical treatment by the state of students in public and private schools. 

\section{Question 48}

Edgar was employed as an electrician by Edgewater Electric Services. Edgewater had contracts with a number of large office and condominium buildings to provide emergency electrical services and repairs at any hour of the day or night. Edgewater also advertised in the telephone "yellow pages": "If it's an electrical emergency, call Edgewater Electric Servicesnight or day."' Although Edgar usually worked from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. at Edgewater, the nature of Edgewater's emergency services required Edgar to be "on call" 24 hours a day. Therefore, Edgewater required Edgar to drive his company van to his home each night, so he would be in a position to speed off to an emergency with all of his tools and equipment at hand. One afternoon, Edgar left the Edgewater Electric offices at 4 p.m. as usual. However, when he left the main highway, he did not turn left toward his home but instead turned right toward the supermarket a few blocks away to pick up some items for dinner. While leaving the supermarket parking lot, Edgar drove negligently and struck Parka, a pedestrian. Parka suffered serious injuries and required several operations and a lengthy hospital stay. Parka filed suit against Edgewater for \$ 100,000$.

Is Parka likely to recover from Edgewater?

(A) Yes, because Edgar's trip to the market was only a slight deviation from the direct route to his home.

(B) Yes, but only if Edgewater knew that Edgar had proclivities to drive negligently.

(C) No, because turning in the opposite direction from his home constituted a "frolic" by Edgar.

(D) No, because an employer is not liable for the torts of an employee traveling to and from work.

\section{Question 49}

Smythe was charged with the murder of his wife. In his defense, he testified that, at the time he killed her, he believed that his wife was planning to destroy the world by detonating a massive explosive device that she had developed and built in the basement of their home. He further testified that he had tried many times to dissuade his wife from her plan and had tried to destroy devices that she stored in the basement. She had, he testified, foiled his efforts by, on two occasions, signing papers for his hospitalization, which lasted for a brief period each time. He said that he had concluded that the only way to prevent her scheme was to kill her and that he had become so obsessed with the importance of doing so that he could think of nothing else. One day when he saw her open the door to the basement, he lunged at her and pushed her down the steps to her death.

The best defense raised by Smythe's testimony is:
(A) Lack of the requisite mental element.
(B) Lack of the requisite act element.
(C) Insanity.
(D) Belief that the situation justified his ac- tions. 

\section{Question 50}

Scholastica, the Academic Dean at Woodbine College, was well liked and considered a competent scholar and a fine teacher. However, six months after her appointment as Dean, Scholastica received a certified letter from Rector, the Provost of Woodbine College, summarily dismissing her. No reasons were given in the letter for Scholastica's dismissal. Scholastica had her lawyer, Loretta, contact Rector to discover the basis of her dismissal, if possible. Two days later, Loretta received a letter from Rector stating, in relevant part, "Scholastica was dismissed from her employment at Woodbine College because I received an anonymous telephone call informing me that Scholastica was involved in selling drugs to students. One can't be too careful about these things in this day and age." Rector had, in fact, received such a phone call, but the basis of the statement was untrue, because Scholastica had never even used illegal drugs, much less sold them.

If Scholastica files suit against Rector for libel:

(A) Scholastica will win, if Rector should have verified the anonymous statement before repeating it to Loretta.

(B) Scholastica will lose, because by having her attorney ask the reason for the dismissal, Scholastica impliedly consented to the statement in the letter.

(C) Rector will win, because Rector was merely repeating the defamatory communication of another.

(D) Rector will lose, because Scholastica was not dealing in drugs.

\section{Question 51}

Rose was convicted in federal court of possession of one kilogram of heroin with intent to distribute. She was sentenced to a prison term. Subsequently, Rose was indicted by a federal grand jury for conspiracy to distribute the same kilogram of heroin. She moved to dismiss the indictment.

Her motion should be:

(A) Denied, because the Double Jeopardy Clause does not apply when the second prosecution is for violation of a separate statute.

(B) Denied, because each prosecution requires proof of an element that the other does not.

(C) Granted, because the Double Jeopardy Clause protects her against a second prosecution for the same criminal conduct.

(D) Granted, because the Due Process Clause protects her against double punishment for the same criminal conduct.



\section{Questions 52-53} are based on the following fact situation:

Three states, East Winnetka, Midland, and West Hampton, are located next to one another in that order. The states of East Winnetka and West Hampton permit the hunting and trapping of snipe, but the state of Midland strictly forbids it in order to protect snipe, a rare species of animal, from extinction. The state of Midland has a state statute that provides, "Possession of snipe traps is prohibited. Any game warden finding a snipe trap within the state shall seize and destroy it." Snipe traps cost about \$ 15$ each. Prentis is a resident of West Hampton and an ardent snipe trapper. She drove her car to East Winnetka to purchase a new improved snipe trap from a manufacturer there. In the course of her trip back across Midland with the trap in her car, Prentis stopped in a Midland state park to camp for a few nights. While she was in that park, a Midland game warden saw the trap, which was visible on the front seat of her car. The warden seized the trap and destroyed it in accordance with the Midland statute after Prentis admitted that the seized item was a prohibited snipe trap. No federal statutes or federal administrative regulations apply.


\section{52} For this question only, assume that Prentis demonstrates that common carriers are permitted to transport snipe traps as cargo across Midland for delivery to another state and that, in practice, the Midland statute is enforced only against private individuals transporting those traps in private vehicles. If Prentis challenges the application of the Midland statute to her on the basis only of a denial of equal protection, this application of the statute will probably be found:

(A) Constitutional, because the traps constitute contraband in which Prentis could have no protected property interest.

(B) Constitutional, because there is a rational basis for differentiating between the possession of snipe traps as interstate cargo by common carriers and the possession of snipe traps by private individuals.

(C) Unconstitutional, because the state cannot demonstrate a compelling public purpose for making this differentiation between common carriers and such private individuals.

(D) Unconstitutional, because interstate travel is a fundamental right that may not be burdened by state law.


\section{53} For this question only, assume that a valid federal administrative rule, adopted under a federal consumer product safety act, regulates the design of snipe traps. The rule was issued to prevent traps from causing injury to human beings, e.g., by pinching fingers while persons were setting the traps. No other federal law applies. Which of the following best states the effect of the federal rule on the Midland state statute?

(A) The federal rule preempts the Midland state statute, because the federal rule regulates the same subject mattersnipe traps.

(B) The federal rule preempts the Midland state statute, because the federal rule does not contain affirmative authorization for continued state regulation.

(C) The federal rule does not preempt the Midland state statute, because the Midland state statute regulates wild animals, a field of exclusive state power.

(D) The federal rule does not preempt the Midland state statute, because the purposes of the federal rule and the Midland state statute are different.

\section{Question 54}

Dryden is tried on a charge of driving while intoxicated. When Dryden was booked at the police station, a videotape was made that showed him unsteady, abusive, and speaking in a slurred manner. If the prosecutor lays a foundation properly identifying the tape, should the court admit it in evidence and permit it to be shown to the jury?
(A) Yes, because it is an admission.
(B) Yes, because its value is not substantially outweighed by unfair prejudice.
(C) No, because the privilege against self- incrimination is applicable.
(D) No, because specific instances of conduct cannot be proved by extrinsic evidence. 

\section{Question 55}

Simmons and Boyd entered into a written contract for the sale and purchase of Wideacre. The contract provided that "Simmons agrees to convey a good and marketable title to Boyd 60 days from the date of this contract."' The purchase price was stated as \$ 60,000$.

At the time set for closing, Simmons tendered a deed in the form agreed to in the contract. Boyd's examination of the record prior to the date of closing had disclosed, however, that the owner of record was not Simmons, but Olson. Further investigation by Boyd revealed that, notwithstanding the state of the record, Simmons had been in what Boyd concedes is adverse possession for 15 years. The period of time to acquire title by adverse possession in the jurisdiction is 10 years. Boyd refuses to pay the purchase price or to take possession "because of the inability of Simmons to transfer a marketable title."

In an appropriate action by Simmons against Boyd for specific performance, Simmons will:

(A) Prevail, because he has obtained a "good and marketable title" by adverse possession.

(B) Prevail, because Simmons's action for specific performance is an action in rem even though Olson is not a party.

(C) Not prevail, because Boyd cannot be required to buy a lawsuit even if the probability is great that Boyd would prevail against Olson.

(D) Not prevail, because Simmons's failure to disclose his lack of record title constitutes fraud.

\section{Question 56}

Jane, an architectural historian, bought a house in 1979 from William. She paid him \$ 50,000$ in cash, and the balance of the \$ 150,000$ sale price came from the proceeds of a mortgage she took out with State National Bank. The mortgage was recorded.

In 1987, Jane borrowed \$ 5,000$ from the Home Finance Company, using her house as security. Home Finance recorded its mortgage on the property.

In 1996, Jane had an architect friend design an addition to her house. She borrowed \$ 40,000$ from Property Equity Lenders, Inc. to pay for this construction. Property Equity did not record the mortgage Jane gave it to secure this debt.

In 2003, Jane lost her job and was unable to make payments on some of her obligations. She made the payments on the State National mortgage, but was unable to make any payments on either the Home Finance or Property Equity Lenders mortgages. Home Finance filed foreclosure of its mortgage.

At the foreclosure sale, Susan bought the property. After acquiring the property at the sale, what is Susan's obligation toward the holders of the other two mortgages, State National Bank and Property Equity Lenders, Inc.?
(A) She takes the property subject to both mortgages.
(B) She takes the property subject to neither mortgage.
(C) She takes the property subject to Property Equity Lenders's mortgage, but not subject to State National Bank's mortgage.
(D) She takes the property subject to State National Bank's mortgage, but not subject to Property Equity Lenders's mortgage. 

\section{Questions 57-58} are based on the following fact situation:

Alpha and Beta made a written contract pursuant to which Alpha promised to convey a specified apartment house to Beta in return for Beta's promise (1) to convey a 100 -acre farm to Alpha and (2) to pay Alpha \$ 1,000$ in cash six months after the exchange of the apartment house and the farm. The contract contained the following provision: "It is understood and agreed that Beta's obligation to pay the \$ 1,000$ six months after the exchange of the apartment house and the farm shall be voided if Alpha has not, within three months after the aforesaid exchange, removed the existing shed in the parking area in the rear of the said apartment house."


\section{57} Which of the following statements concerning the order of performances is least accurate?

(A) Alpha's tendering of good title to the apartment house is a condition precedent to Beta's duty to convey good title to the farm.

(B) Beta's tendering of good title to the farm is a condition precedent to Alpha's duty to convey good title to the apartment house.

(C) Beta's tendering of good title to the farm is a condition subsequent to Alpha's duty to convey good title to the apartment house.



\section{ Alpha's tendering of good title to the apartment house and Beta's tendering of good title to the farm are concurrent conditions} Alpha's removal of the shed from the parking area of the apartment house is:
(A) A condition subsequent in form but precedent in substance to Beta's duty to pay the \$ 1,000$.
(B) A condition precedent in form but subsequent in substance to Beta's duty to pay the \$ 1,000$.
(C) A condition subsequent to Beta's duty to pay the \$ 1,000$.
(D) Not a condition, either precedent or subsequent, to Beta's duty to pay the \$ 1,000$. 

\section{Question 59}

Cantebury Trails operated a fleet of touring buses. It owned its own garage for repairing and maintaining its fleet. Behind this garage was a large vacant lot in which Cantebury Trails stored old, discarded, and wrecked buses, which it salvaged for parts or sold for scrap. This area was fenced in by a five-foot high chain link fence, but Cantebury was aware that children from the neighborhood would climb the fence and play among the junked buses. Consequently, Cantebury Trails would have one of its employees walk through the storage area sometime during the day to chase away any children who may have scaled the fence.

One Saturday afternoon, when Cantebury Trails' garage had closed for the weekend, a group of children climbed over the storage area's fence to play army among the junked buses. One of the children, Donny (who had been chased away from the lot before and who also had been warned by his parents not to play in these buses), was trying to climb on the roof of one of the old buses, when he slipped on the front bumper of the bus and his arm broke through the front windshield. As a result of this accident, Donny severed the tendon and nerves in his right arm, leaving it permanently disabled.

Through an appropriate guardian, Donny brought suit against Cantebury Trails for his injury.

Which of the following, if established, would most aid Donny in showing that Cantebury Trails breached a duty owing to him?

(A) It would have been economically feasible to remove the windows from all the abandoned buses. (B) This area would be classified more as a residential neighborhood than an industrial area.

(C) Cantebury Trails could have eliminated the risk of injury without unduly interfering with its normal operations.

(D) Cantebury Trails improperly maintained the fence that surrounded the lot with the discarded and abandoned buses.

\section{Question 60}

Cars driven by Pugh and Davidson collided, and Davidson was charged with driving while intoxicated in connection with the accident. She pleaded guilty and was merely fined, although, under the statute, the court could have sentenced her to two years in prison.

Thereafter, Pugh, alleging that Davidson's intoxication had caused the collision, sued Davidson for damages. At trial, Pugh offers the properly authenticated record of Davidson's conviction.

The record should be:
(A) Admitted as proof of Davidson's character.
(B) Admitted as proof of Davidson's intoxica- tion.
(C) Excluded, because the conviction was not the result of a trial.
(D) Excluded, because it is hearsay not within any exception. 

\section{Question 61}

In which of the following situations is Defendant least likely to be guilty of burglary in a jurisdiction that has extended burglary to buildings other than dwellings but otherwise retains the common law requirements?

(A) Defendant posed as a member of a cleaning crew so that a security guard would give him access to a department store after it was closed for the night, and then hid in a storage closet until the cleaning crew left. He then stole a quantity of jewelry from several jewelry cases, and forced open a loading dock door to escape from the building.

(B) Defendant, intending to steal money and valuables from a house he believed was unoccupied for the evening, pushed open a mail slot and reached his hand in to try to unlock the front door. The owners' dog bit Defendant's hand and he immediately pulled it out and fled.

(C) Defendant was owed \$ 500$ by Victor, his bookie. While Victor was out of town one night, Defendant went to Victor's house to get his money, because he knew that Victor had \$ 500$ in cash in a desk drawer and the debt was long overdue. Defendant opened an unlocked window and entered the house. He could not find the cash, so he decided to take a painting that he knew was worth substantially more than \$ 500$. He later sold it for \$ 1,000$ and kept the proceeds.

(D) Defendant, a security officer in a housing project, saw Von, who was wanted on a warrant for drug dealing, through a window of an apartment one evening. He fired his gun at Von from the sidewalk, intending to injure him, although Defendant knew that he was not legally authorized to use deadly force in that situation. The bullet went through the window and missed Von, lodging in a wall behind him.

\section{Question 62}

Pitt sued Dow for damages for injuries that Pitt incurred when a badly rotted limb fell from a curbside tree in front of Dow's home and hit Pitt. Dow claimed that the tree was on city property and thus was the responsibility of the city. At trial, Pitt offered testimony that, a week after the accident, Dow had cut the tree down with a chainsaw.

The offered evidence is:
(A) Inadmissible, because there is a policy to encourage safety precautions.
(B) Inadmissible, because it is irrelevant to the condition of the tree at the time of the accident.
(C) Admissible to show the tree was on Dow's property.
(D) Admissible to show the tree was in a rotted condition. 

\section{Question 63}

Talbot and Rogers, as lessees, signed a valid lease for a house. Lane, the landlord, duly executed the lease and delivered possession of the premises to the lessees.

During the term of the lease, Rogers verbally invited Andrews to share the house with the lessees. Andrews agreed to pay part of the rent to Lane, who did not object to this arrangement, despite a provision in the lease that provided that "any assignment, subletting or transfer of any rights under this lease without the express written consent of the landlord is strictly prohibited, null and void." Talbot objected to Andrews's moving in, even if Andrews were to pay a part of the rent.

When Andrews moved in, Talbot brought an appropriate action against Lane, Rogers, and Andrews for a declaratory judgment that Rogers had no right to assign. Rogers's defense was that he and Talbot were tenants in common of a term for years, and that he, Rogers, had a right to assign a fractional interest in his undivided onehalf interest.

In this action, Talbot will:

(A) Prevail, because a co-tenant has no right to assign all or any part of a leasehold without the consent of all interested parties.

(B) Prevail, because the lease provision prohibits assignment.

(C) Not prevail, because he is not the beneficiary of the nonassignment provision in the lease.

(D) Not prevail, because his claim amounts to a void restraint on alienation.

\section{Question 64}

John Smith has denied his purported signature on a letter that has become critical in a breach of contract suit between Smith and Miller. At trial, Miller's counsel calls Alice, a teacher, who testifies that she taught John Smith mathematics in school 10 years earlier, knows his signature, and proposes to testify that the signature to the letter is that of John Smith. Smith's counsel objects.

The trial judge should:

(A) Sustain the objection on the ground that identification of handwriting requires expert testimony and the teacher does not, per se, qualify as an expert.

(B) Sustain the objection on the ground that the best evidence of Smith's handwriting would be testimony by a person who had examined his writing more recently than 10 years ago.

(C) Overrule the objection on the ground that a schoolteacher qualifies as an expert witness for the purpose of identifying handwriting.

(D) Overrule the objection on the ground that a layman may identify handwriting if he has seen the person in question write, and has an opinion concerning the writing in question. 

\section{Question 65}

Harold and Wanda, once married to each other, had gone through a bitter divorce. The divorce decree awarded custody of the couple's four-year-old son Jake to Wanda, with Harold receiving visitation rights. On the first opportunity that Harold had to take Jake for the weekend, Harold disappeared with Jake. Wanda was greatly distressed and called Harold's parents, Grandmaw and Grandpaw, on a weekly basis, always asking if they knew anything about the whereabouts of Harold and Jake. Grandmaw and Grandpaw knew quite well where Harold and Jake were, and they often sent money to help support Harold while he was on the run. However, they always insisted that they knew nothing about the child. Four years after Jake was abducted, the police arrested Harold and returned Jake to his mother.

Wanda files an action against Grandmaw and Grandpaw alleging infliction of emotional distress. Will Wanda prevail?

(A) Yes, because Grandmaw and Grandpaw acted in deliberate disregard of a high probability that their actions would cause Wanda to suffer emotional distress.

(B) Yes, but only if Grandmaw and Grandpaw actually knew that their actions would cause Wanda to suffer emotional distress.

(C) No, unless Wanda can prove that she suffered physical harm.

(D) No, because Wanda never was in a zone of danger.



\section{Questions 66-68} are based on the following fact situation:

As part of a comprehensive federal aid-toeducation program, Congress included the following provisions as conditions for state receipt of federal funds: (1) Whenever textbooks are provided to students without charge, they must include no religious instruction and must be made available on the same terms to students in all public and private schools accredited by the state educational authority. (2) Salary supplements can be paid to teachers in public and private schools, up to $10 \%$ of existing salary schedules, where present compensation is less than the average salary for persons of comparable training and experience, provided that no such supplement is paid to any teacher who instructs in religious subjects. (3) Construction grants can be made toward the cost of physical plants at private colleges and universities, provided that no part of the grant is used for buildings in which instruction in religious subject matters is offered.


\section{66} Federal taxpayer Allen challenges the provision that allows the distribution of free textbooks to students in a private school where religious instruction is included in the curriculum. On the question of the adequacy of Allen's standing to raise the constitutional question, the most likely result is that standing will be:

(A) Sustained, because any congressional spending authorization can be challenged by any taxpayer.

(B) Sustained, because the challenge to the exercise of congressional spending power is based on a claimed violation of specific constitutional limitations on the exercise of such power.

(C) Denied, because there is insufficient nexus between the taxpayer and the challenged expenditures.



\section{ Denied, because, in the case of private schools, no state action is involved} Federal taxpayer Bates also challenges the salary supplements for teachers in private schools where religious instruction is included in the curriculum. On the substantive constitutional issue, the most likely result is that the salary supplements will be:

(A) Sustained, because the statute provides that no supplements will be made to teachers who are engaged in any religious instruction.

(B) Sustained, because to distinguish between private and public school teachers would violate the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment.

(C) Held unconstitutional, because some religions would benefit disproportionately.

(D) Held unconstitutional, because the policing of the restriction would amount to an excessive entanglement with religion.


\section{68} Federal taxpayer Bates also challenges the construction grants to church-operated private colleges and universities. The most likely result is that the construction grants will be:

(A) Sustained, because aid to one aspect of an institution of higher education not shown to be pervasively sectarian does not necessarily free it to spend its other resources for religious purposes.

(B) Sustained, because bricks and mortar do not aid religion in a way forbidden by the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.

(C) Held unconstitutional, because any financial aid to a church-operated school strengthens the religious purposes of the institution.

(D) Held unconstitutional, because the grants involve or cause an excessive entanglement with religion. 

\section{Questions 69-70} are based on the following fact situation:

Eureka, Inc., inventor of the LBVC, a laserbeam vegetable chopper, ran a television ad that described the chopper and said, "The LBVC is yours for only \$ 49.99$ if you send your check or money order to Box 007, Greenville. Not available in stores." Gourmet, who owned a retail specialty shop, wrote Eureka, "What's your best, firm price for two dozen LBVCs?" Eureka sent a written reply that said in its entirety, "We quote you for prompt acceptance \$ 39.99$ per unit for 24 LBVCs." Gourmet subsequently mailed a check to Eureka in the appropriate amount, with a memo enclosed saying, "I accept your offer for 24 LBVCs."


\section{69} A contract would arise from these communications only if:

(A) Both parties were merchants.

(B) Eureka had at least 24 LBVCs in stock when Gourmet's check and memo were received.

(C) Gourmet's check and memo were mailed within three months after his receipt of Eureka's letter.



\section{ Gourmet's check and memo were mailed within a reasonable time after his receipt of Eureka's letter} For this question only, assume the following facts: Eureka shipped 24 LBVCs to Gourmet after receiving his check and memo, and with the shipment sent Gourmet an invoice that conspicuously stated, among other things, the following lawful provision: "These items shall not be offered for resale at retail." Gourmet received and read, but disregarded, the invoice restriction and displayed the 24 LBVCs for resale. Eureka has a cause of action against Gourmet for breach of contract only if:

(A) Eureka, as inventor of the LBVC, was not a merchant.

(B) The invoice restriction was a material alteration of preexisting terms.

(C) Eureka's written reply that quoted \$ 39.99$ per LBVC, but did not contain a restriction on retail sales, was not an offer that Gourmet accepted by ordering 24 LBVCs.

(D) Gourmet was consciously aware when taking delivery of the goods that the television ad had said, "Not available in stores."

\section{Question 71}

Which of the following is most likely to be found to be a strict liability offense?
(A) A city ordinance providing for a fine of not more than \$ 200$ for shoplifting.
(B) A federal statute making it a felony to possess heroin.
(C) A state statute making it a felony to fail to register a firearm.
(D) A state statute making the sale of adulter- ated milk a misdemeanor.

\section{Question 72}

A group of children, ranging in age from 8 to 15 , regularly played football on the common area of an apartment complex owned by O'Neill. Most of the children lived in the apartment complex, but some lived elsewhere. O'Neill knew that the children played on the common area and had not objected.

Peter, a 13-year-old who did not live in the apartment complex, fell over a sprinkler head while running for a pass and broke his leg. Although Peter had played football on the common area before, he had never noticed the sprinkler heads, which protruded one inch above the ground and were part of a permanently installed underground sprinkler system.

If a claim is asserted on Peter's behalf, Peter will:

(A) Prevail, if the sprinkler head was a hazard that Peter probably would not discover.

(B) Prevail, because O'Neill had not objected to children playing on the common area.

(C) Not prevail, because Peter did not live in the apartment complex.

(D) Not prevail, unless the sprinkler heads were abnormally dangerous to users of the common area. 

\section{Question 73}

A state statute provides that persons moving into a community to attend a college on a fulltime basis may not vote in any elections for local or state officials that are held in that community. Instead, the statute provides that for voting purposes all such persons shall retain their residence in the community from which they came. In that state the age of majority is 18 .

Which of the following is the strongest argument to demonstrate the unconstitutionality of this state statute?

(A) A state does not have an interest that is sufficiently compelling to justify the exclusion from voting of an entire class of persons.

(B) There are less restrictive means by which the state could assure that only actual residents of a community vote in its elections.

(C) Most persons moving to a community to attend college full-time are likely to have attained the age of majority under the laws of this state.

(D) On its face this statute impermissibly discriminates against interstate commerce.



\section{Questions 74-75} are based on the following fact situation:

Seller and Buyer executed an agreement for the sale of real property.


\section{74} Assume for this question only that Seller dies before closing and his will leaves his personal property to Perry and his real property to Rose. There being no breach of the agreement by either party, which of the following is correct?

(A) Death, an eventuality for which the parties could have provided, terminates the agreement if they did not so provide. (B) Rose is entitled to the proceeds of the sale when it closes, because the doctrine of equitable conversion does not apply to these circumstances.

(C) Perry is entitled to the proceeds of the sale when it closes.

(D) Title was rendered unmarketable by Seller's death.


\section{75} Assume for this question only that Buyer dies before closing, there being no breach of the agreement by either party. Which of the following is appropriate in most jurisdictions?

(A) Buyer's heir may specifically enforce the agreement.

(B) Seller has the right to return the down payment and cancel the contract.

(C) Death terminates the agreement.

(D) Any title acquired would be unmarketable by reason of Buyer's death. 

\section{Question 76}

At trial of Pendergast's battery action against Dellacourt, arising from an incident in which Dellacourt allegedly bit off Pendergast's ear, Winchester testified that he was taking a shortcut through an urban alley one morning and heard someone cry "Help!" Rushing around the corner of a building, Winchester saw Pendergast lying on the sidewalk in a pool of blood, with his left ear missing. Dellacourt, who was standing nearby, turned quickly and made a move as if to approach Winchester, and so Winchester ran down the sidewalk away from Dellacourt to summon the police. The following exchange then occurred during cross-examination of Winchester by Dellacourt's counsel. D: "You didn't actually see my client bite off the plaintiff's ear, did you, Mr. Winchester?" W: "No." D: "For all you know, my client could have been an innocent bystander like yourself, but one who didn't run away but stayed to offer assistance." W: "I ran away because I was afraid of the defendant and because I wanted to call the police." D: "For all we know you might have been running out of that alley because you had just committed a crime yourself, Mr. Winchester." W: "Look, Dellacourt is the one who bit off the ear, not me!" D: "If you arrived on the scene after the alleged ear biting, how can you possibly know my client is the one who bit off the plaintiff's ear?"' W: "Because I read in the newspaper the next day that an eyewitness to the entire event told police that he saw Dellacourt spit the ear out after I left." Dellacourt then moved to have Winchester's last remark stricken from the record.

If the trial court denies Dellacourt's motion, that ruling is most strongly supported by which of the following?
(A) The report of the eyewitness was an excited utterance.
(B) The report of the eyewitness was a state- ment of recent perception.

(C) The error in admitting the statement could not be cured by an appropriate jury instruction.

(D) The remark was invited by the crossexaminer's questions.



\section{Questions 77-78} are based on the following fact situation:

Cycle Company manufactured a bicycle that it sold to Bike Shop, a retail bicycle dealer, which in turn sold it to Roth. Shortly thereafter, while Roth was riding the bicycle along a city street, he saw a traffic light facing him turn from green to amber. He sped up, hoping to cross the intersection before the light turned red. However, Roth quickly realized that he could not do so and applied the brake, which failed. To avoid the traffic that was then crossing in front of him, Roth turned sharply to his right and onto the sidewalk, where he struck Perez, a pedestrian. Both Perez and Roth sustained injuries. Assume that the jurisdiction follows traditional contributory negligence rules.


\section{77} If Roth asserts a claim against Bike Shop based on strict liability in tort, will Roth prevail?
(A) Yes, if the brake failed because of a defect present when the bicycle left the factory of Cycle Company.
(B) Yes, because the brake failed while Roth was riding the bicycle.
(C) No, if Roth contributed to his own injury by speeding up.


\section{ No, if Bike Shop carefully inspected the bicycle before selling it} If Perez asserts a claim based on negligence against Cycle Company, and if it is found that the brake failure resulted from a manufacturing defect in the bicycle, will Perez prevail?
(A) Yes, because Cycle Company placed a defective bicycle into the stream of commerce.
(B) Yes, if the defect could have been discovered through the exercise of reasonable care by Cycle Company.
(C) No, because Perez was not a purchaser of the bicycle.
(D) No, if Roth was negligent in turning onto the sidewalk.

\section{Question 79}

Which of the following is least likely to be the underlying felony in a prosecution for felony murder?
(A) Arson.
(B) Manslaughter.
(C) Attempted rape.
(D) Burglary.

\section{Question 80}

While crossing Spruce Street, Pesko was hit by a car that she did not see. Pesko sued Dorry for her injuries.

At trial, Pesko calls Williams, a police officer, to testify that, 10 minutes after the accident, a driver stopped him and said, "Officer, a few minutes ago I saw a hit-and-run accident on Spruce Street involving a blue convertible, which I followed to the drive-in restaurant at Oak and Third," and that a few seconds later Williams saw Dorry sitting alone in a blue convertible in the drive-in restaurant's parking lot. Williams's testimony about the driver's statement should be:

(A) Admitted as a statement of recent perception.

(B) Admitted as a present sense impression.

(C) Excluded, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

(D) Excluded, because it is more prejudicial than probative.



\section{Questions 81-83} are based on the following fact situation:

A written contract was entered into between Bouquet, a financier-investor, and Vintage Corporation, a winery and grape-grower. The contract provided that Bouquet would invest \$ 1$ million in Vintage for its capital expansion and, in return, that Vintage, from grapes grown in its famous vineyards, would produce and market at least 500,000 bottles of wine each year for five years under the label "Premium Vintage-Bouquet."

The contract included provisions that the parties would share equally the profits and losses from the venture and that, if feasible, the wine would be distributed by Vintage only through Claret, a wholesale distributor of fine wines. Neither Bouquet nor Vintage had previously dealt with Claret. Claret learned of the contract two days later from reading a trade newspaper. In reliance thereon, he immediately hired an additional sales executive and contracted for enlargement of his wine storage and display facility. 81. If Vintage refuses to distribute the wine through Claret and Claret then sues Vintage for breach of contract, is it likely that Claret will prevail?
(A) Yes, because Vintage's performance was to run to Claret rather than to Bouquet.
(B) Yes, because Bouquet and Vintage could reasonably foresee that Claret would change his position in reliance on the contract.
(C) No, because Bouquet and Vintage did not expressly agree that Claret would have enforceable rights under their contract.
(D) No, because Bouquet and Vintage, having no apparent motive to benefit Claret, appeared in making the con- tract to have been protecting or serv- ing only their own interests.


\section{82} For this question only, assume the following facts. Amicusbank lent Bouquet \$ 200,000$ and Bouquet executed a written instrument providing that Amicusbank "is entitled to collect the debt from my share of the profits, if any, under the Vintage-Bouquet contract." Amicusbank gave prompt notice of this transaction to Vintage.

If Vintage thereafter refuses to account for any profits to Amicusbank and Amicusbank sues Vintage for Bouquet's share of profits then realized, Vintage's strongest argument in defense is that:
(A) The Bouquet-Vintage contract did not expressly authorize an assignment of rights.
(B) Bouquet and Vintage are partners, not simply debtor and creditor.

(C) Amicusbank is not an assignee of Bouquet's rights under the BouquetVintage contract.

(D) Amicusbank is not an intended thirdparty beneficiary of the BouquetVintage contract.


\section{83} For this question only, assume the following facts. Soon after making its contract with Bouquet, Vintage, without Bouquet's knowledge or assent, sold its vineyards but not its winery to Agribiz, a large agricultural corporation. Under the terms of this sale, Agribiz agreed to sell to Vintage all grapes grown on the land for five years. Agribiz's employees have no experience in wine-grape production, and Agribiz has no reputation in the wine industry as a grape producer or otherwise. The BouquetVintage contract was silent on the matter of Vintage's selling any or all of its business assets.

If Bouquet seeks an appropriate judicial remedy against Vintage for entering into the Vintage-Agribiz transaction, is Bouquet likely to prevail?
(A) Yes, because the Vintage-Agribiz transaction created a significant risk of diminishing the profits in which Bouquet would share under his con- tract with Vintage.
(B) Yes, because the Bouquet-Vintage contract did not contain a provision authorizing a delegation of Vintage's duties.
(C) No, because Vintage remains in a position to perform under the Bou- quet-Vintage contract.
(D) No, because Vintage, as a corporation, must necessarily perform its contracts by delegating duties to individuals. 

\section{Question 84}

Miller applied to the state liquor board for transfer of the license of Miller's Bar and Grill to a new site. The board held a hearing on the application.

At that hearing, Hammond appeared without being subpoenaed and stated that Miller had underworld connections. Although Hammond did not know this information to be true, he had heard rumors about Miller's character and had noticed several underworld figures going in and out of Miller's Bar and Grill. In fact, Miller had no underworld connections.

In a claim against Hammond based on defamation, Miller will:

(A) Not recover if Hammond reasonably believed his statement to be true.

(B) Not recover if the board granted Miller's application.

(C) Recover, because Hammond's statement was false.

(D) Recover, because Hammond appeared before the board voluntarily.

\section{Question 85}

Arthur and Celia, brother and sister, both of legal age, inherited Goodacre, their childhood home, from their father. They thereby became tenants in common.

Goodacre had never been used as anything except a residence. Arthur had been residing on Goodacre with his father at the time his father died. Celia had been residing in a distant city. After their father's funeral, Arthur continued to live on Goodacre, but Celia returned to her own residence. There was no discussion between Arthur and Celia concerning their common ownership, nor had there ever been any administration of their father's estate. Arthur paid all taxes, insurance, and other carrying charges on Goodacre. He paid no rent or other compensation to Celia, nor did Celia request any such payment.

Thirty years later, a series of disputes arose between Arthur and Celia for the first time concerning their respective rights to Goodacre. The jurisdiction where the land is located recognizes the usual common law types of cotenancies, and there is no applicable legislation on the subject.

If Arthur claims the entire title to Goodacre in fee simple and brings an action against Celia to quiet title in himself, and if the state where the land is located has an ordinary 20 -year adverse possession statute, the decision should be for:

(A) Arthur, because during the past 30 years Arthur has exercised the type of occupancy ordinarily considered sufficient to satisfy the adverse possession requirements.

(B) Arthur, because the acts of the parties indicate Celia's intention to renounce her right to inheritance.

(C) Celia, because there is no evidence that Arthur has performed sufficient acts to constitute her ouster.

(D) Celia, because one co-tenant cannot acquire title by adverse possession against another. 

\section{Question 86}

David is being tried in federal court for criminal conspiracy with John to violate federal narcotics law. At trial, the prosecutor calls David's new wife, Wanda, and asks her to testify about a meeting between David and John that she observed before she married David.

Which of the following is the most accurate statement of the applicable rule concerning whether Wanda may testify?
(A) The choice is Wanda's.
(B) The choice is David's.
(C) Wanda is permitted to testify only if both Wanda and David agree.
(D) Wanda is compelled to testify even if both Wanda and David object.

\section{Question 87}

Dillon held up a gasoline station. During the robbery he shot and killed a customer who attempted to apprehend him. Dillon was prosecuted for premeditated murder and convicted. Thereafter, he was indicted for armed robbery of the station. Before the trial, his attorney moved to dismiss the indictment on the ground that further proceedings were unconstitutional because of Dillon's prior conviction.

The motion to dismiss should be:

(A) Granted, because once Dillon was convicted on any of the charges arising out of the robbery, the prosecution was constitutionally estopped from proceeding against Dillon on any charge stemming from the same transaction.

(B) Granted, because the Double Jeopardy Clause prohibits a subsequent trial on what is essentially a lesser included offense. (C) Denied, because there is no constitutional requirement that all known charges against Dillon be brought in the same prosecution.

(D) Denied, because estoppel does not apply when the defendant is charged with violating two different statutes.

\section{Question 88}

An appropriations act passed by Congress over the President's veto directs that \$ 1$ billion "shall be spent" by the federal government for the development of a new military weapons system, which is available only from the Arms Corporation. On the order of the President, the Secretary of Defense refuses to authorize a contract for purchase of the weapons system. The Arms Corporation sues the Secretary of Defense, alleging an unlawful withholding of these federal funds.

The strongest constitutional argument for the Arms Corporation is that:

(A) Passage of an appropriation over a veto makes the spending mandatory.

(B) Congress's power to appropriate funds includes the power to require that the funds will be spent as directed.

(C) The President's independent constitutional powers do not specifically refer to spending.

(D) The President's power to withhold such funds is limited to cases where foreign affairs are directly involved. 

\section{Question 89}

Potts, a building contractor, sued Dennis for failure to pay on a small cost-plus construction contract. At trial, Potts, who personally supervised all of the work, seeks to testify to what he remembers about the amount of pipe used, the number of workers used on the job, and the number of hours spent grading.

Dennis objects on the ground that Potts had routinely recorded these facts in notebooks which are in Potts's possession.

Potts's testimony is:

(A) Admissible as a report of regularly conducted business activity.

(B) Admissible as based on firsthand knowledge.

(C) Inadmissible, because it violates the best evidence rule.

(D) Inadmissible, because a summary of writings cannot be made unless the originals are available for examination.

\section{Question 90}

A grand jury was investigating a bank robbery. The only information known to the prosecutor was a rumor that Taylor might have been involved. The grand jury subpoenaed Taylor. He refused to answer questions about the robbery and was granted use immunity. He then testified that he and Simmons had robbed the bank. The grand jury indicted both Taylor and Simmons for the bank robbery. The prosecutor permitted Simmons to enter a plea to a lesser offense in exchange for Simmons's agreement to testify against Taylor. The prosecutor had no evidence as to the identity of the robbers except the testimony of Simmons and Taylor. At Taylor's trial, his objection to Simmons's being permitted to testify should be:

(A) Sustained, because the prosecutor may not bargain away the rights of one co-defendant in a deal with another.

(B) Sustained, because Simmons's testimony was acquired as a result of Taylor's grand jury testimony.

(C) Overruled, because the police suspected Taylor even before he testified in the grand jury hearing.

(D) Overruled, because a witness cannot be precluded from testifying if his testimony is given voluntarily.



\section{Questions 91-93} are based on the following fact situation:

Dino purchased a new Belchfire automobile from Dealer. Within a few days of the purchase, Dino returned the car to Dealer for repairs. Dino complained, "There's something wrong with the brakes. The car keeps pulling to the left whenever I apply them."' Dealer's mechanic readjusted the brakes but did not detect any other problem with the brake system. Dealer's mechanic told Dino, "You shouldn't have any more problems with those brakes. However, if the same problem does occur, don't panic. The car may pull to the left, but the brakes will still work, allowing you to stop the car."

Dino drove the car home. It worked fine for two days, but then the brakes started pulling to the left again. As Dino was driving the car back to Dealer's shop for further repair, he saw Pedestrian crossing the street. Dino pressed his foot down on the brake pedal, but the master cylinder failed, and the car would not stop. Dino's car struck Pedestrian, injuring him. 91. If Pedestrian sues Dino for his injuries:

(A) Pedestrian will prevail, because Dino knew that there was a problem with his brakes.

(B) Pedestrian will prevail, because drivers have a duty to maintain their vehicles in safe working order.

(C) Dino will prevail, because he had no reason to know that his brakes would not stop the car.

(D) Dino will prevail, because he diligently had his brakes repaired.


\section{92} If Pedestrian sues Belchfire Motors, the manufacturer of Dino's car, on a theory of strict liability for his injuries:

(A) Pedestrian will prevail, because manufacturers are strictly liable for accidents that result from defects in their products.

(B) Pedestrian will prevail, if the master cylinder was defective when the vehicle left Belchfire's control.

(C) Belchfire will prevail, because Dealer's mechanic readjusted the brakes.



\section{ Belchfire will prevail, unless the car model had a history of brake defects} If Pedestrian brings a negligence action against Dealer for his injuries:

(A) Pedestrian will prevail, if the car was sold by Dealer with an unreasonably dangerous defect.

(B) Pedestrian will prevail, because Dealer's mechanic did not discover the defective cylinder.

(C) Dealer will prevail, unless the defect should have been discovered when the mechanic inspected the car.

(D) Dealer will prevail, unless Belchfire was negligent in designing or manufacturing the master cylinder. 

\section{Question 94}

Fernwood Realty Company developed a residential development, known as the Fernwood Development, which included single-family dwellings, town houses, and high-rise apartments for a total of 25,000 dwelling units. Included in the deed to each unit was a covenant under which the grantee and the grantee's "heirs and assigns" agreed to purchase electrical power only from a plant Fernwood promised to build and maintain within the development. Fernwood constructed the plant and the necessary power lines. The plant did not supply power outside the development. An appropriate and fair formula was used to determine price.

After constructing and selling 12,500 of the units, Fernwood sold its interest in the development to Gaint Realty Investors. Gaint operated the power plant and constructed and sold the remaining 12,500 units. Each conveyance from Gaint contained the same covenant relating to electrical power that Fernwood had included in the 12,500 conveyances it had made.

Page bought a dwelling unit from Olm, who had purchased it from Fernwood. Subsequently, Page, whose lot was along the boundary of the Fernwood development, ceased buying electrical power from Gaint and began purchasing power from General Power Company, which provided such service in the area surrounding the Fernwood development. Both General Power and Gaint have governmental authorization to provide electrical services to the area. Gaint instituted an appropriate action against Page to enjoin her from obtaining electrical power from General Power.

If judgment is for Page, it most likely will be because:
(A) The covenant does not touch and concern the land.
(B) The mixture of types of residential units is viewed as preventing one common devel- opment scheme.

(C) The covenant is a restraint on alienation.

(D) There is no privity of estate between Page and Gaint.

\section{Question 95}

Amy Docent, a state college instructor, was discharged because of her refusal to comply with a state statute requiring public employees to swear or affirm that they will (1) "uphold and defend" the state and federal constitutions, and (2) "oppose the overthrow" of the state or federal governments "by force, violence, or by any improper method." The statute had previously been held constitutional by the state supreme court. Docent filed a complaint in federal district court alleging the unconstitutionality of the statute and seeking an injunction and damages.

Which of the following is the state's strongest argument for sustaining the validity of the statute?
(A) Government employment is a privilege, not a right.
(B) The oath as a whole is only a commitment to abide by constitutional processes.
(C) The First and Fourteenth Amendments permit a state to fix the conditions of state employment.
(D) The state has a compelling need to keep disloyal persons out of governmental positions of trust. 

\section{Questions 96-97} are based on the following fact situation:

On January 2, Hugh Homey and Sue Structo entered into a written contract in which Structo agreed to build on Homey's lot a new house for Homey, according to plans and specifications furnished by Homey's architect, Barbara Bilevel, at a contract price of \$ 200,000$. The contract provided for specified progress payments and a final payment of \$ 40,000$ upon Homey's acceptance of the house and issuance of a certificate of final approval by the architect. Further, under a "liquidated damages" clause in the agreement, Structo promised to pay Homey \$ 500$ for each day's delay in completing the house after the following October l. Homey, however, told Structo on January 2 , before the contract was signed, that he would be on an around-the-world vacation trip most of the summer and fall and would not return to occupy the house until November 1.


\section{96} For this question only, assume the following facts. Because she was overextended on other construction jobs, Structo did not complete the house until October 15. Homey returned on November 1 as planned and occupied the house. Ten days later, after making the \$ 40,000$ final payment to Structo, Homey learned for the first time that the house had not been completed until October 15.

If Homey sues Structo for breach of contract on account of the 15-day delay in completion, which of the following will the court probably decide?

(A) Homey will recover damages as specified in the contract, i.e., \$ 500$ multiplied by 15 .

(B) Homey will recover his actual damages, if any, caused by the delay in completion.

(C) Having waived the delay by occupying the house and making the final payment, Homey will recover nothing. (D) Homey will recover nothing because the contractual completion date was impliedly modified to November 1 when Homey on January 2 advised Structo about Homey's prospective trip and return date.


\section{97} For this question only, assume the following facts: Structo completed the house on October 14 and, when Homey returned on November 1 , requested the final payment of \$ 40,000$ and issuance of a certificate of final approval by the architect, Bilevel. Homey, however, refused to pay any part of the final installment after Bilevel told him, "Structo did a great job and I find no defects worth mentioning, but Structo's contract price was at least \$ 40,000$ too high, especially in view of the big drop in housing values within the past 10 months. I will withhold the final certificate, and you just hold on to your money."

If Structo sues Homey for the \$ 40,000$ final payment after Bilevel's refusal to issue a final certificate, which of the following will the court probably decide?

(A) Structo wins, because nonoccurrence of the condition requiring Bilevel's certificate of final approval was excused by Bilevel's bad-faith refusal to issue the certificate.

(B) Structo wins, but, because all contractual conditions have not occurred, her recovery is limited to restitution of the benefit conferred on Homey, minus progress payments already received.

(C) Homey wins, provided he can prove by clear and convincing evidence that the fair-market value of the completed house is \$ 160,000$ or less.

(D) Homey wins, provided he can prove by clear and convincing evidence that total payments to Structo of \$ 160,000$ will yield a fair net profit. 

\section{Question 98}

Acting on an anonymous telephone call, police went to Desmond's apartment, knocked on the door, and demanded to search it for narcotics. When Desmond refused, the police forced the door open and placed him under arrest. As they were removing him from the apartment, Desmond offered to give the officers "valuable information" in exchange for his release. Before he could say anything else, Desmond was given Miranda warnings by the police. Thereafter, he told the police that he had stored some heroin in his friend's apartment and that he and his friend had been going to sell it. The heroin was recovered, and Desmond was prosecuted for conspiracy to sell narcotics and for possession of narcotics. At his trial, Desmond moved to suppress his statements.

Which of the following is Desmond's best argument in support of the motion to suppress?

(A) Desmond is entitled to know the identity of his accuser, and the state cannot supply this information.

(B) The police should have given Desmond Miranda warnings prior to entry into the apartment, and the warnings were ineffectual once Desmond offered to give the police information.

(C) Desmond was intimidated by the forced entry into the apartment, and since the statements were involuntary and coerced, their use against him would violate due process of law.

(D) The statements were fruits of an unlawful arrest, and though the Miranda warnings may have been sufficient to protect his right against self-incrimination, they were not sufficient to purge the taint of the illegal arrest.

\section{Question 99}

Supermedia, a television station, was conducting a "person on the street" interview segment live for its evening "magazine" show and asking citizens of the community what they thought were the biggest problems facing the city. When the interviewer stopped Don and asked him the question, he replied, "Corruption in city government, particularly the mayor."

William, mayor of the city, has now brought an action for defamation against Don. At trial, William has produced testimony as to his honesty and good character.

Which of the following evidence could Don properly adduce at trial as part of his defense?

I. The fact that William was convicted two years ago of taking a bribe to award a city contract for solid waste disposal.

II. The testimony of Harold, a local newspaper editor, that William is known throughout the state as a corrupt politician.

III. The testimony of Allen, a former campaign manager of William's, that William was corrupt.
(A) I. only.
(B) I. and II. only.
(C) I. and III. only.
(D) I., II., and III. 

\section{Question 100}

Purr entered into a written contract to buy Oldacre from Venn at a price of \$ 160,000$. At the time the contract was entered into, Purr gave Venn a cashier's check for \$ 10,000$, representing Purr's "earnest money." According to procedures provided for by state law, the contract was promptly and properly recorded in the office of the county's Recorder of Deeds. The closing date was set for April 29.

On April 17, Purr's attorney conducted a title search, during which the lawyer discovered that Venn's distant cousin, Kuzz, had a legitimate claim to a $1 / 10$ undivided interest in Oldacre, based upon some confusing language in the will of Venn's grandfather, from whom Venn inherited Oldacre. On April 26, Purr paid Kuzz \$ 10,000$ and Kuzz gave Purr a quitclaim deed, surrendering any and all interest Kuzz had in Oldacre. Purr informed Venn of the situation and told Venn, "I'll see you at the closing." On April 29, Purr appeared at the Equity Title Company offices at the time appointed in the land-sale contract for the closing. Purr tendered a certified check to the closing officer, but Venn never appeared at the closing. Purr asked the closing officer to place the certified check in escrow and promptly sued Venn for specific performance. Will Purr prevail in his specific performance action?
(A) Yes, if the certified check is for \$ 150,000$.
(B) Yes, if the certified check is for \$ 140,000$.
(C) No, because Purr should have informed Venn of the title defect to allow Venn to obtain marketable title, but Venn must return Purr's earnest money.
(D) No, because Purr has become a co-tenant of Venn and an action for partition rather than specific performance is appropriate. 

\title{
Multistate Practice Exam
}

\author{
P.M. EXAM
}

Time-3 hours

\begin{abstract}
You will be given three hours to work on this test. Be sure that the question numbers on your answer sheet match the question numbers in your test book. You are not to begin work until the supervisor tells you to do so.

Your score will be based on the number of questions you answer correctly. It is therefore to your advantage to try to answer as many questions as you can. Give only one answer to each question; multiple answers will not be counted. If you wish to change an answer, erase your first mark completely and mark your new choice. Use your time effectively. Do not hurry, but work steadily and as quickly as you can without sacrificing your accuracy.
\end{abstract}

\section{YOU ARE TO INDICATE YOUR ANSWERS TO ALL QUESTIONS ON THE SEPARATE ANSWER SHEET PROVIDED.}

\section{DIRECTIONS}

Each of the questions or incomplete statements in this test is followed by four suggested answers or completions. You are to choose the best of the stated alternatives. Answer all questions according to the generally accepted view, except where otherwise noted.

For the purpose of this test, you are to assume that Articles 1 and 2 of the Uniform Commercial Code have been adopted. You are also to assume relevant application of Article 9 of the U.C.C. concerning fixtures. The Federal Rules of Evidence are deemed to control.

The terms "Constitution," "constitutional," and "unconstitutional" refer to the federal Constitution unless indicated to the contrary.

You are also to assume that there is no applicable statute unless otherwise specified; however, survival actions and claims for wrongful death should be assumed to be available where applicable. You should assume that joint and several liability, with pure comparative negligence, is the relevant rule unless otherwise indicated.

\section{DO NOT OPEN THE TEST UNTIL YOU ARE INSTRUCTED TO DO SO.}



\section{ANSWER SHEET (P.M. EXAM)}





\section{Question 101}

Egbert, who was sent to prison for nine years for car theft, vowed to get even with Charles, the prosecutor at his trial. While in prison, Egbert was told by another prisoner, Duane, that when Charles was in private practice as a criminal defense attorney, he had represented Duane in a drug charge. Duane claimed that because he did not have the cash to pay Charles his fees, he offered to pay his fees with five ounces of cocaine, and Charles accepted.

Although Egbert had no independent reason to believe that what Duane said was true, when he got out of prison he learned that Charles was running for District Attorney. Egbert went to one of the local papers and sold them the story for \$ 1,000$. In the article that resulted, Egbert was quoted as saying "I only hope that Charles suffers like I had to suffer for the last nine years."

Although the allegation was false, Charles withdrew from the race as a result of the article.

In a suit by Charles against Egbert for defamation, the probable result would be:

(A) Charles prevails because Egbert acted with deliberate malice towards Charles.

(B) Charles prevails if Egbert should have known that the story was false.

(C) Egbert prevails because the story was a matter of public concern.

(D) Egbert prevails if he honestly believed the truth of the assertion made by Duane.

\section{Question 102}

A statute in a jurisdiction makes it a crime to sell ammunition to a minor (defined as a person under the age of 18). The courts have interpreted this statute as creating a strict liability offense that does not require knowledge of the age of the purchaser and as creating vicarious liability. Duncan, who was 16 years old, but looked four or five years older, entered a store owned by Mathews and asked a clerk for a box of .22 caliber shells. Mathews had instructed her employees not to sell ammunition to minors. The clerk asked Duncan his age. Duncan said he was 20 . The clerk then placed a box of shells on the counter and asked, "Anything else?" Duncan said that was all he wanted but then discovered he did not have enough money to pay for the shells, so the clerk put the box back onto the shelf.

If Mathews, the owner of the store, is charged with attempting to violate the statute, her best argument would be that:
(A) It was impossible for the sale to have occurred.
(B) She had strictly instructed her employees not to sell ammunition to minors.
(C) Duncan lied about his age.
(D) The clerk did not have the mental state needed for attempt. 

\section{Question 103}

Technix, Inc. produces the most up-to-date, high-speed mainframe computers on the market, and Cruncher Corporation is on the cutting edge of data storage technology. Technix and Cruncher contracted to purchase/sell a "Yellow Giant" computer. The written contract stated that Cruncher would purchase "one Technix 'Yellow Giant' computer at a price of \$ 175,000$." At the time, the going price for Yellow Giant computers was \$ 150,000$. When Technix delivered a Yellow Giant on the specified date, Cruncher refused to accept delivery and refused to pay. Technix sued Cruncher for breach, claiming that its expensive computers were manufactured to order and so it was forced to dispose of the Yellow Giant at a price far below fair market value. In defending the suit, Cruncher's president wishes to testify that Cruncher rejected the Yellow Giant because both parties knew that Cruncher really wanted a "Purple Giant," a machine much faster than the Yellow Giant, but which the parties agreed would be called in the contract a "Yellow Giant" to keep competitors in the dark as to Cruncher's new capabilities, and that the parties had executed contracts in the past that had specified a less powerful computer than the model that was actually delivered.

Should the testimony of Cruncher's president be admitted?
(A) Yes, because Cruncher is entitled to refor- mation of the contract.
(B) Yes, because the president's testimony would explain the meaning of a disputed contract term.
(C) No, because the parol evidence rule applies and the president's testimony contradicts a term in the written contract.
(D) No, because the Statute of Frauds applies, since the contract is for a large amount of money.



\section{Questions 104-105} are based on the following fact situation:

The state of Floribama has recently had a problem with people dealing in, and with, its booming garment industry. The use of independent contractors by major garment makers, most of whom were headquartered out of state, had led to the hiring of illegal aliens to work under conditions reminiscent of 19 th century sweatshops.

The legislature of Floribama enacted a statute to remedy the situation and to protect its citizens against the problems in the future. The statute provides:

I. That all garment makers must be licensed by the state attorney general.

II. That all subcontractors (defined separately in the statute) must be separately licensed by the attorney general and must have been a citizen of the United States for five years and a resident of Floribama for one year.


\section{104} The requirement that garment makers be licensed by the attorney general is:

(A) Constitutional, because it is within the proper scope of the exercise of the police powers of the state.

(B) Constitutional, because the attorney general is designated as the proper person to enforce the law.

(C) Unconstitutional, as a burden on interstate commerce.



\section{ Unconstitutional, as a violation of the Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV} The second clause of the legislation concerning subcontractors is subject to a constitutional challenge based on:
(A) The Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
(B) The Privileges and Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
(C) The Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.
(D) The Tenth Amendment reserved powers of the state.

\section{Question 106}

In litigation over the estate of Baggs, who died intestate, Payton, who is 18 years old, claimed to be Baggs's niece and entitled, therefore, to a share of his large estate. In support of her claim, Payton offered in evidence a Bible, properly identified as having belonged to Baggs's family, in the front of which was a list of family births, marriages, and deaths. The list recorded Payton's birth to Baggs's oldest sister.

To prove that Payton is Baggs's niece, the Bible listing is:

(A) Admissible as an ancient document.

(B) Admissible as a family record.

(C) Inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

(D) Inadmissible, because there was no showing of firsthand knowledge by the one who wrote it.

\section{Question 107}

Taylor and Scott, an unmarried couple, purchased a condominium as tenants in common and lived in the condominium for three years. Subsequently, they made an oral agreement that, on the death of either of them, the survivor would own the entire condominium, and, as a result, they decided they did not need wills.

Two years later, Taylor and Scott were involved in the same automobile accident. Taylor was killed immediately. Scott died one week later. Both died intestate. Taylor's sole heir is his brother, Mark. Scott's sole heir is her mother, Martha. Mark claimed one-half of the condominium, and Martha claimed all of it. The jurisdiction has no applicable statute except for the Statute of Frauds; nor does it recognize common law marriages.

In an appropriate action by Martha claiming the entire ownership of the condominium, the court will find that:

(A) Martha owns the entire interest because Taylor and Scott did not make wills in reliance upon their oral agreement.

(B) Martha owns the entire interest because she is entitled to reformation of the deed to reflect the oral agreement.

(C) Mark and Martha each own an undivided one-half interest because Taylor and Scott each died as the result of the same accident.

(D) Mark and Martha each own an undivided one-half interest because the Statute of Frauds applies. 

\section{Question 108}

A state statute provides that only citizens of the United States may be employed by that state. In an action brought in a federal court, a resident alien who was prevented from obtaining state employment as a garbage collector solely because of his alien status challenged the statute's constitutionality as applied to his circumstances.

Which of the following statements concerning the burden of persuasion applicable to this suit is correct?

(A) The alien must demonstrate that there is no rational relationship between the citizenship requirement and any legitimate state interest.

(B) The alien must demonstrate that the citizenship requirement is not necessary to advance an important state interest.

(C) The state must demonstrate that there is a rational relationship between the citizenship requirement and a legitimate state interest.

(D) The state must demonstrate that the citizenship requirement is necessary to advance a compelling state interest.

\section{Question 109}

Chemco designed and built a large tank on its premises for the purpose of storing highly toxic gas. The tank developed a sudden leak and escaping toxic gas drifted into the adjacent premises, where Nyman lived. Nyman inhaled the gas and died as a result.

In a suit brought by Nyman's personal representative against Chemco, which of the following must be established if the claim is to prevail?

I. The toxic gas that escaped from Chemco's premises was the cause of Nyman's death.

II. The tank was built in a defective manner.

III. Chemco was negligent in designing the tank.
(A) I. only.
(B) I. and II. only.
(C) I. and III. only.
(D) I., II., and III.

\section{Question 110}

Pullen used aluminum brackets in her business. On the telephone listed as hers in the telephone book, Pullen received a call in which the caller said, "This is John Denison of Denison Hardware Company. We have a special on aluminum brackets this week at $30 \%$ off." Pullen ordered brackets from the caller. When the brackets were never delivered, Pullen sued Denison for breach of contract.

At trial, Denison, who denies having made the telephone call, objects to Pullen's testimony concerning it. When asked, Pullen testifies that, aside from the telephone call, she had never heard Denison speak until she met him in the judge's chambers before the trial and that, in her opinion, the voice on the telephone was Denison's.

The strongest argument for admission of Pullen's testimony concerning the telephone call is that:
(A) The call related to business reasonably transacted over the telephone.
(B) The call was received at a number assigned to Pullen by the telephone company.
(C) After hearing Denison speak in chambers, Pullen recognized Denison's voice as that of the person on the telephone.
(D) Self-identification is sufficient authentica- tion of a telephone call. 

\section{Question 111}

Drake owned a small warehouse that he leased to Teague, who used it as a storage and distribution center for fresh cut flowers being shipped to area florists. Drake wanted to put Teague out of business so that he could lease the warehouse to someone else at a higher rent. $\mathrm{He}$ entered the warehouse one night using a master key, and turned off the cooling system to destroy the flowers. To ensure that all of Teague's inventory would be destroyed, he also deployed several kerosene space heaters. While he was filling one, a small amount of kerosene spilled and was ignited by an ash from his cigarette. Although the fire that started was small at first, Drake panicked when he saw the flames and ran out of the building. The fire eventually spread to the walls of the building and heavily damaged it before being extinguished by firefighters.

If Drake is charged with arson, can he be found guilty?
(A) Yes, because Drake caused the fire during the commission of a malicious felony.
(B) Yes, because Drake did nothing when the kerosene caught on fire.
(C) No, because Drake did not intend to set the building on fire.
(D) No, because Drake cannot be liable for arson of a building that he owned.

\section{Question 112}

Dietz and Atkins worked together as pickpockets. Dietz approached Verner from the front to distract him, holding a small camera and asking him to take a picture, while Atkins came up from behind with a knife to slice open Verner's back pocket of his pants and remove his wallet. Verner was drunk and believed Dietz had a gun and was trying to rob him, but was unaware of Atkins behind him. Verner reached into his back pocket to hand over his wallet and was cut by Atkins's knife as it was slicing through his pocket. The wallet dropped to the ground as Verner clutched his hand. Atkins picked it up and Dietz and Atkins fled while Verner knelt on the ground in pain. Dietz was apprehended shortly thereafter and charged with robbery.

Should Dietz be found guilty?
(A) Yes, because Atkins obtained the property by means of force.
(B) Yes, because Verner believed that Dietz would shoot him if he did not give up his wallet.
(C) No, because neither Dietz nor Atkins intended to use force against Verner to obtain the property.
(D) No, because Verner's belief that Dietz was robbing him was unreasonable. 

\section{Question 113}

Professor Peterson, an expert on American Colonial and Revolutionary History, conducted full-day tours through the historic sites of Philadelphia every Wednesday and Thursday through the summer months. Peterson's fee for his services was \$ 105$, which did not include the entrance fees for several of the historical sites. Other persons and organizations conducted various American history tours through the city for somewhat less than Peterson, but Peterson's tour was generally rated the best by the leading tourist guidebooks because Peterson personally conducted the tours and shared his encyclopedic knowledge of American history and the city of Philadelphia.

David had recently moved to Philadelphia, and all of his co-workers praised Professor Peterson's tour, but David was not inclined to pay \$ 105$ for a tour of the historical sites of his new city. Therefore, David took a day off one Thursday and "hung around" the Liberty Bell monument, where Peterson's tour started. That day Peterson was conducting 27 persons on the tour. Most of the participants had paid in advance, but Peterson was holding up a sign with information about the tour and handing out brochures, one of which David took. Peterson accepted a few additional participants who signed up on the spot, but David was not among them. All day long, David hung around at the fringe of this group, paying the entrance fees separately but following the group through the different historical sites. However, he always positioned himself close enough to Peterson's group so that he could hear virtually every word of Peterson's lecture, although David did not ask Peterson any questions. David signed his name and address on the register at Independence Hall. Peterson noted this and took down the information. Two days after the tour concluded, David received a bill from Peterson in the amount of \$ 105$.

David will most likely be required to pay Peterson: (A) \$ 105$, because that is the contract price for the tour.

(B) \$ 105$, because the amount of the contract was less than \$ 500$, making the Statute of Frauds inapplicable.

(C) \$ 105$, if that is a reasonable fee for the lectures based on Peterson's expertise.

(D) Nothing, because the historical sites were open to the public and David paid his own way.

\section{Question 114}

In compliance with a federal statute requiring buildings to be made accessible to persons with disabilities, Walter installed wheelchair ramps at both entrances to his office building located on Blackacre, which he had owned for many years. One year later, Walter entered into a contract with Barbara to sell Blackacre, including the office building. After having the property surveyed, Barbara notified Walter that she was not going to complete the sale because the wheelchair ramp on the south side of the building extended over the property line and into the adjoining parcel of Whiteacre, making the title unmarketable. Walter insisted that Barbara proceed with the sale, and brought an action to compel her performance.

If the court were to find that title is marketable, it will be because:
(A) The wheelchair ramp is required by federal law.
(B) Walter currently owns Whiteacre and acquired Whiteacre and Blackacre as part of a larger parcel.
(C) The wheelchair ramp extends only 10 inches over the property line.
(D) The contract between Walter and Barbara requires Walter to convey only a quitclaim deed. 

\section{Question 115}

An ordinance of City makes it unlawful to park a motor vehicle on a City street within 10 feet of a fire hydrant. At 1:55 p.m., Parker, realizing he must be in Bank before it closed at 2 p.m. and finding no other space available, parked his automobile in front of a fire hydrant on a City street. Parker then hurried into the bank, leaving his aged neighbor, Ned, as a passenger in the rear seat of the car. About five minutes later, and while Parker was still in Bank, Driver was driving down the street. Driver swerved to avoid what he mistakenly thought was a hole in the street and sideswiped Parker's car. Parker's car was turned over on top of the hydrant, breaking the hydrant and causing a small flood of water. Parker's car was severely damaged and Ned was badly injured. There is no applicable guest statute and the jurisdiction follows traditional contributory negligence rules.

If Ned asserts a claim against Parker, the most likely result is that Ned will:

(A) Recover, because Parker's action was negligence per se.

(B) Recover, because Parker's action was a continuing wrong that contributed to Ned's injuries.

(C) Not recover, because a reasonably prudent person could not foresee injury to Ned as a result of Parker's action.

(D) Not recover, because a violation of a city ordinance does not give rise to a civil cause of action.



\section{Questions 116-118} are based on the following fact situation:

On May 1, Ohner telegraphed Byer, "Will sell you any or all of the lots in Grove subdivision at \$ 5,000$ each. Details follow in letter." The letter contained all the necessary details concerning terms of payment, insurance, mortgages, etc., and provided, "This offer remains open until June 1.' On May 2, after he had received the telegram but before he had received the letter, Byer telegraphed Ohner, "Accept your offer with respect to lot 101." Both parties knew that there were 50 lots in the Grove subdivision and that they were numbered 101 through 150 .


\section{116} For this question only, assume that Ohner and Byer were bound by a contract for the sale of lot 101 for \$ 5,000$, that on May 3 Ohner telephoned Byer and stated that because he had just discovered that a shopping center was going to be erected adjacent to the Grove subdivision, he would "need to have \$ 6,000$ for each of the lots including lot $101, "$ that Byer thereupon agreed to pay him \$ 6,000$ for lot 101 , and that on May 6, Byer telegraphed, "Accept your offer with respect to the rest of the lots." Assuming that two contracts were formed and that there is no controlling statute, Byer will most likely be required to pay:
(A) Only \$ 5,000$ for each of the 50 lots.
(B) Only \$ 5,000$ for lot 101 , but \$ 6,000$ for the remaining 49 lots.
(C) \$ 6,000$ for each of the 50 lots.


\section{ \$ 6,000$ for lot 101 , but only \$ 5,000$ for the remaining 49 lots} For this question only, assume that on May 5, Ohner telephoned Byer stating that he had sold lots 102 through 150 to someone else on May 4, and that Byer thereafter telegraphed Ohner, "Will take the rest of the lots." Assume further that there is no controlling statute. In an action by Byer against Ohner for breach of contract, Byer will probably:

(A) Succeed, because Ohner had promised him that the offer would remain open until June 1.

(B) Succeed, because Ohner's attempted revocation was by telephone.

(C) Not succeed, because Byer's power of acceptance was terminated by Ohner's sale of the lots to another party.

(D) Not succeed, because Byer's power of acceptance was terminated by effective revocation.


\section{118} For this question only, assume that on May 6, Byer telegraphed Ohner, "Will take the rest of the lots," and that on May 8, Ohner discovered that he did not have good title to the remaining lots. Which of the following would provide the best legal support to Ohner's contention that he was not liable for breach of contract as to the remaining 49 lots?
(A) Impossibility of performance.
(B) Unilateral mistake as to basic assump- tion.
(C) Termination of the offer by Byer's having first contracted to buy lot 101 .
(D) Excuse by failure of an implied condition precedent.

\section{Question 119}

Leonard was the high priest of a small cult of Satan worshippers living in New Arcadia. As a part of the practice of their religious beliefs, a cat was required to be sacrificed to the glory of Satan after a live dissection of the animal in which it endured frightful pain. In the course of such a religious sacrifice, Leonard was arrested on the complaint of the local Humane Society and charged under a statute punishing cruelty to animals.

On appeal, a conviction of Leonard probably will be:

(A) Sustained, on the grounds that belief in or worship of Satan does not enjoy constitutional protection.

(B) Sustained, on the grounds that sincere religious belief is not an adequate defense on these facts.

(C) Overturned, on the grounds that the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of religion and its expression was violated.

(D) Overturned, on the grounds that the beliefs of the cult members in the need for the sacrifice might be reasonable, and their act was religious. 

\section{Question 120}

Peters sued Dietrich, claiming that they had entered into an oral agreement whereby Dietrich agreed to hire Peters as Chief Engineer of Dietrich Products and Peters agreed to take the job at a specified salary, and that Dietrich had subsequently breached their employment contract by refusing to hire Peters. At the trial of Peters's suit, Dietrich took the stand and denied having any contract with Peters for employment or otherwise. In response, Peters offers into evidence a properly authenticated phone message to Dietrich's wife, Wanda, that Dietrich had left with the switchboard operator at her office. The message stated, "I know you won't be happy, but I've offered Peters the Chief Engineer position and he's accepted." Dietrich's attorney objects.

The phone message should be ruled:
(A) Admissible, because it is the statement of a party-opponent.
(B) Admissible, if it is a recent perception.
(C) Inadmissible, because it is a privileged communication between husband and wife.
(D) Inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any recognized exception to the hearsay rule.



\section{Questions 121-122} are based on the following fact situation:

Husband and Wife were going through a nasty divorce. Wife hired Patrick, a retired detective, to spy on Husband. Patrick followed Husband to Hotel, where he saw Husband meet a woman and go into her hotel room. Patrick checked into the adjoining room, placed an electronic listening device on the wall, and listened to the activities of Husband and the woman in the next room. While Patrick was listening, a burglar broke into Patrick's room and hit Patrick over the head with a blackjack. As a result, Patrick was hospitalized. A state statute makes adultery a crime. 121. If Patrick sues Hotel for his injuries:

(A) Patrick will prevail if Hotel's management had reason to believe the hotel room locks were inadequate.

(B) Patrick will prevail, because innkeepers owe their guests a very high degree of care.

(C) Hotel will prevail, because the burglar was a superseding intervening cause.

(D) Hotel will prevail if it was in compliance with a state statute setting minimum standards for hotel room locks.


\section{122} If Husband sues Patrick for invasion of privacy:

(A) Husband will win, because he had an expectation of privacy in the woman's hotel room.

(B) Husband will win, unless Patrick's electronic eavesdropping was legal.

(C) Husband will lose, because adultery is illegal.

(D) Husband will lose if Patrick published nothing about Husband's activities. 

\section{Question 123}

In 1975, Hubert Green executed his will which in pertinent part provided, "I hereby give, devise, and bequeath Greenvale to my surviving widow for life, remainder to such of my children as shall live to attain the age of 30 years, but if any child dies under the age of 30 years survived by a child or children, such child or children shall take and receive the share which his, her, or their parent would have received had such parent lived to attain the age of 30 years."

At the date of writing his will, Green was married to Susan, and they had two children, Allan and Beth. Susan died in 1980 and Hubert married Waverly in 1982. At his death in 1990 , Green was survived by his wife, Waverly, and three children, Allan, Beth, and Carter. Carter, who was born in 1984, was his child by Waverly.

In a jurisdiction that recognizes the common law Rule Against Perpetuities unmodified by statute, the result of the application of the Rule is that the:

(A) Remainder to the children and to the grandchildren is void because Green could have subsequently married a person who was unborn at the time Green executed his will.

(B) Remainder to the children is valid, but the substitutionary gift to the grandchildren is void because Green could have subsequently married a person who was unborn at the time Green executed his will.

(C) Gift in remainder to Allan and Beth or their children is valid, but the gift to Carter or his children is void.

(D) Remainder to the children and the substitutionary gift to the grandchildren are valid.

\section{Question 124}

Downs was indicted in state court for bribing a public official. During the course of the investigation, police had demanded and received from Downs's bank the records of Downs's checking account for the preceding two years. The records contained incriminating evidence. On the basis of a claim of violation of his constitutional rights, Downs moves to prevent the introduction of the records in evidence. His motion should be:

(A) Granted, because a search warrant should have been secured for seizure of the records.

(B) Granted, because the records covered such an extensive period of time that their seizure unreasonably invaded Downs's right of privacy.

(C) Denied, because the potential destructibility of the records, coupled with the public interest in proper enforcement of the criminal laws, created an exigent situation justifying the seizure.

(D) Denied, because the records were business records of the bank in which Downs had no legitimate expectation of privacy.

\section{Question 125}

Plummer, a well-known politician, was scheduled to address a large crowd at a political dinner. Just as Plummer was about to sit down at the head table, Devon pushed Plummer's chair to one side. As a result, Plummer fell to the floor. Plummer was embarrassed at being made to look foolish before a large audience but suffered no physical harm.

If Plummer asserts a claim against Devon for damages because of his embarrassment, will Plummer prevail?
(A) Yes, if Devon knew that Plummer was about to sit on the chair.
(B) Yes, if Devon negligently failed to notice that Plummer was about to sit on the chair.
(C) No, because Plummer suffered no physical harm along with his embarrassment.
(D) No, if in moving the chair Devon intended only a good-natured practical joke on Plummer. 

\section{Question 126}

Paulsen sued Daly for nonpayment of a personal loan to Daly, as evidenced by Daly's promissory note to Paulsen. Paulsen called Walters to testify that he knows Daly's handwriting and that the signature on the note is Daly's. On direct examination, to identify himself, Walters gave his name and address and testified that he had been employed by a roofing company for seven years.

During presentation of Daly's case, Daly called Wilson to testify that she is the roofing company's personnel manager and that she had determined, by examining the company's employment records, that Walters had worked there only three years.

The trial judge should rule that Wilson's testimony is:
(A) Inadmissible, because it is not the best evidence.
(B) Inadmissible, because it is impeachment on a collateral question.
(C) Admissible as evidence of a regularly conducted activity.
(D) Admissible as tending to impeach Walters's credibility.

\section{Question 127}

A federal statute set up a program of dental education. The statute provided that the Secretary of Health and Human Services "shall, on a current basis, spend all of the money appropriated for this purpose" and "shall distribute the appropriated funds" by a specified formula to state health departments that agree to participate in the program. In the current year Congress appropriated \$100 million for expenditure on this program.

To ensure a budget surplus in the current fiscal year, the President issued an executive order directing the various Cabinet Secretaries to cut expenditures in this year by $10 \%$ in all categories. He also ordered certain programs to be cut more drastically because he believed that "they are not as important to the general welfare as other programs." The President identified the dental education program as such a program and ordered it to be cut by $50 \%$. Assume that no other federal statutes are relevant.

To satisfy constitutional requirements, how much money must the Secretary of Health and Human Services distribute for the dental education program this year?
(A) \$50 million, because the President could reasonably determine that this program is not as important to the general welfare as other programs.
(B) \$50 million, because as chief executive the President has the constitutional authority to control the actions of all of his subordi- nates by executive order.
(C) \$ 90$ million, because any more drastic cut for the program would be a denial of equal protection to beneficiaries of this program as compared to beneficiaries of other programs.
(D) \$100 million, because the President may not unilaterally suspend the effect of a valid federal statute imposing a duty to spend appropriated monies. 

\section{Question 128}

Four years ago, Owen held Blackacre, a tract of land, in fee simple absolute. In that year he executed and delivered to Price a quitclaim deed which purported to release and quitclaim to Price all of the right, title, and interest of Owen in Blackacre. Price accepted the quitclaim and placed the deed in his safe deposit box.

Owen was indebted to Crider in the amount of \$ 35,000$. In September of the current year, Owen executed and delivered to Crider a warranty deed, purporting to convey the fee simple to Blackacre, in exchange for a full release of the debt he owed to Crider. Crider immediately recorded his deed.

In December, Price caused his quitclaim deed to Blackacre to be recorded and notified Crider that he (Price) claimed title.

Assume that there is no evidence of occupancy of Blackacre and assume, further, that the jurisdiction where Blackacre is situated has a recording statute which required good faith and value as elements of the junior claimant's priority. Which of the following is the best comment concerning the conflicting claims of Price and Crider?

(A) Price cannot succeed, because the quitclaim deed through which he claims prevents him from being bona fide (in good faith).

(B) The outcome will turn on the view taken as to whether Crider paid value within the meaning of the statute requiring this element.

(C) The outcome will turn on whether Price paid value (a fact not given in the statement).

(D) Price's failure to record until December of the current year estops him from asserting title against Crider.

\section{Question 129}

Brown contended that Green owed him \$ 6,000$. Green denied that he owed Brown anything. Tired of the dispute, Green eventually signed a promissory note by which he promised to pay Brown \$ 5,000$ in settlement of their dispute.

In an action by Brown against Green on the promissory note, which of the following, if true, would afford Green the best defense?

(A) Although Brown honestly believed that \$ 6,000$ was owed by Green, Green knew that it was not owed.

(B) Although Brown knew that the debt was not owed, Green honestly was in doubt whether it was owed.

(C) The original claim was based on an oral agreement, which the Statute of Frauds required to be in writing.

(D) The original claim was an action on a contract, which was barred by the applicable statute of limitations.

\section{Question 130}

Ellis, an electrical engineer, designed an electronic game known as Zappo. Ellis entered into a licensing agreement with Toyco under which Toyco agreed to manufacture Zappo according to Ellis's specifications and to market it and pay a royalty to Ellis.

Carla, whose parents had purchased a Zappo game for her, was injured while playing with the game. Carla recovered a judgment against Toyco on the basis of a finding that the Zappo game was defective because of Ellis's improper design.

In a claim for indemnity against Ellis, will Toyco prevail?

(A) Yes, because as between Ellis and Toyco, Ellis was responsible for the design of Zappo.

(B) Yes, because Toyco and Ellis were joint tortfeasors.

(C) No, because Toyco, as the manufacturer, was strictly liable to Carla.

(D) No, if Toyco, by a reasonable inspection, could have discovered the defect in the design of Zappo. 

\section{Question 131}

Defendant was charged with murder. His principal defense was that he had killed in hot blood and should be guilty only of manslaughter. The judge instructed the jury that the state must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, that the killing was presumed to be murder, and that the charge could be reduced to manslaughter, and Defendant accordingly found guilty of this lesser offense, if Defendant showed by a fair preponderance of the evidence that the killing was committed in the heat of passion on sudden provocation. Defendant was convicted of murder. On appeal, he seeks a new trial and claims error in the judge's instructions to the jury.

Defendant's conviction will most probably be:

(A) Affirmed, because the judge carefully advised the jury of the state's obligation to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.

(B) Affirmed, because Defendant's burden to show hot blood was not one of ultimate persuasion but only one of producing evidence to rebut a legitimate presumption.

(C) Reversed, because the instruction put a burden on Defendant that denied him due process of law.

(D) Reversed, because presumptions have a highly prejudicial effect and thus cannot be used on behalf of the state in a criminal case.

\section{Question 132}

While on walking patrol in a commercial district in the early evening, Officer Murdoch noticed that a light was on in Walker's Machine Shop. Curious about what was going on inside, the officer tried to look through the window of the shop, but it had been painted on the inside so that only a strip about three inches at the top, eight feet above street level, was still transparent. Officer Murdoch quietly brought two trash cans from a neighboring business over to the window, stood on them and saw, through the strip of unpainted window, that the shop owner's son Tommy was inside with a friend, sucking white powder into his nose through a rolled up tube of paper from off a small mirror. Recognizing from his experience and training that Tommy was snorting cocaine, Officer Murdoch knocked at the front door to the shop, and Tommy let him in. Murdoch immediately arrested Tommy and his friend. In the back room of the shop through whose window he had peered, Murdoch found and seized several grams of cocaine, a razor blade, and a mirror.

In Tommy's subsequent prosecution for possession of cocaine, Tommy seeks to bar introduction of the cocaine, mirror, and razor blade into evidence. His motion will probably be:
(A) Granted, because Officer Murdoch could not have known that Tommy was snorting cocaine absent a chemical test of the substance being snorted.
(B) Granted, because Officer Murdoch violated Tommy's reasonable expectation of priva- cy.
(C) Denied, because the search was incident to a valid arrest.
(D) Denied, because Tommy consented to Officer Murdoch's entry into the shop. 

\section{Question 133}

Parmott sued Dexter in an automobile collision case. At trial, Parmott wishes to show by extrinsic evidence that Wade, Dexter's primary witness, is Dexter's partner in a gambling operation.

This evidence is:
(A) Admissible as evidence of Wade's character.
(B) Admissible as evidence of Wade's possible bias in favor of Dexter.
(C) Inadmissible, because criminal conduct can be shown only by admission or record of conviction.
(D) Inadmissible, because bias must be shown on cross-examination and not by extrinsic evidence.



\section{Questions 134-136} are based on the following fact situation:

Farquart had made a legally binding promise to furnish his son Junior and Junior's fiancee a house on their wedding day, planned for June 10 of the following year. Pursuant to that promise, Farquart telephoned his old contractor-friend Sawtooth and made the following oral agreement-each making full and accurate written notes thereof:

Sawtooth was to cut 30 trees into fireplace logs from a specified portion of a certain one-acre plot owned by Farquart, and Farquart was to pay therefor \$ 20$ per tree. Sawtooth agreed further to build a house on the plot conforming to the specifications of Plan OP5 published by Builders, Inc. for a construction price of \$ 18,000$. Farquart agreed to make payments of \$ 2,000$ on the first of every month for nine months beginning August 1 upon monthly presentation of a certificate by Builders, Inc. that the specifications of Plan OP5 were being met. Sawtooth delivered the cut logs to Farquart in July, when he also began building the house. Farquart made three \$ 2,000$ payments for the work done in July, August, and September, without requiring a certificate. Sawtooth worked through October, but no work was done from November 1 to the end of February because of bad weather; and Farquart made no payments during that period. Sawtooth did not object. On March 1, Sawtooth demanded payment of \$ 2,000$; but Farquart refused on the grounds that no construction work had been done for four months and Builders had issued no certificate. Sawtooth thereupon abandoned work and repudiated the agreement.


\section{134} Assuming that Sawtooth committed a total breach on March 1, what would be the probable measure of Farquart's damages in an action against Sawtooth for breach of contract?
(A) Restitution of the three monthly installments paid in August, Septem- ber, and October.
(B) What it would cost to get the house completed by another contractor, minus installments not yet paid to Sawtooth.
(C) The difference between the market value of the partly built house, as of the time of Sawtooth's breach, and the market value of the house if com- pleted according to specifications.


\section{ In addition to other legally allowable damages, an allowance for Farquart's mental distress if the house cannot be completed in time for Junior's wed- ding on June 10} Assuming that Sawtooth committed a total breach on March 1, and assuming further that he was aware when the agreement was made of the purpose for which Farquart wanted the completed house, which of the following, if true, would best support Farquart's claim for consequential damages on account of delay beyond June 10 in getting the house finished?

(A) Junior and his bride, married on June 10 , would have to pay storage charges on their wedding gifts and new furniture until the house could be completed.

(B) Junior's fiancee jilted Junior on June 10 and ran off with another man who had a new house.

(C) Farquart was put to additional expense in providing Junior and his bride, married on June 10, with temporary housing.

(D) On June 10, Farquart paid a \$ 5,000$ judgment obtained against him in a suit filed March 15 by an adjoining landowner on account of Farquart's negligent excavation, including blasting, in an attempt to finish the house himself after Sawtooth's repudiation.


\section{136} What was the probable legal effect of the following?

I. Sawtooth's failure to object to Farquart's making no payments on November 1, December 1, January 1 , and February 1.

II. Farquart's making payments in August through October without requiring a certificate from Builders.

(A) Estoppel-type waiver as to both I. and II.

(B) Waiver of delay in payment as to I. and revocable waiver as to II. (C) Mutual rescission of the contract by I. combined with II.

(D) Discharge of Farquart's duty to make the four payments as to I. and estoppel-type waiver as to II.

\section{Question 137}

Rogers gave Mitchell a power of attorney containing the following provision:

My attorney, Mitchell, is specifically authorized to sell and convey any part or all of my real property.

Mitchell conveyed part of Rogers's land to Stone by deed in the customary form containing covenants of title. Stone sues Rogers for breach of a covenant.

The outcome of Stone's suit will be governed by whether:

(A) Deeds without covenants are effective to convey realty.

(B) The jurisdiction views the covenants as personal or running with the land.

(C) Stone is a bona fide purchaser.

(D) The power to "sell and convey" is construed to include the power to execute the usual form of deed used to convey realty. 

\section{Question 138}

Responding to an open bid solicitation from the procurement office of the Defense Department, Midwest Technologies submitted a bid for the development of a new flame-resistant fabric. Upon review of the bids, Midwest was notified that it was the low bidder; however, its bid for the contract was denied because of its failure to meet guidelines on minority representation that the procurement office imposed on firms contracting with the Defense Department. Several months later, the project was rebid. Although Midwest did not participate, company officials later learned that the contract had been awarded to another regional company, Great Plains Technologies, after the procurement office waived its minority representation guidelines for that project. Midwest filed an action in federal district court seeking only to enjoin performance of the contract.

The court should:

(A) Dismiss the action, because Midwest cannot show a relationship between the procurement office's award of the contract and any injury that it may be claiming.

(B) Dismiss the action, because the federal government may enter into contracts under whatever conditions it chooses.

(C) Decide the case on the merits, because the procurement office must show that its waiver of the minority representation guidelines was necessary to further a compelling government interest.

(D) Decide the case on the merits, because Midwest can claim that the unequal treatment of the two bidders violated its rights under the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.

\section{Question 139}

Phyllis was crossing the street at a crosswalk, but did not look both ways. As she walked, Phyllis was hit by a car driven by Brett, and immediately afterwards, she was struck by a car driven by Andrew. As a result of these collisions with the cars, Phyllis suffered severe injuries. Although it was impossible to determine which portion of Phyllis's injuries was caused by Andrew and which by Brett, at the trial of Phyllis's suit, the jury determined that Andrew was $20 \%$ negligent, that Brett was $40 \%$ negligent, and that Phyllis was $40 \%$ negligent. It was further determined that Phyllis had suffered \$ 100,000$ in damages. Phyllis had already received \$ 10,000$ from her group medical insurance plan. Andrew had a \$ 500,000$ auto liability insurance policy, and Brett is now insolvent.

In a pure comparative negligence jurisdiction, how much will Phyllis recover in damages from Andrew?
(A) \$ 90,000$.
(B) \$ 60,000$.
(C) \$ 50,000$.
(D) \$ 20,000$. 

\section{Question 140}

Ben contracted to buy Woodacre, a parcel of land, from Owen, with deed to be delivered and money paid on August 1 . Ben planned to build a high-rise building on Woodacre. Ben had visually inspected the land, but did not take any special notice of the fact that a stream flowed up to the eastern property line of Woodacre and reappeared just beyond the western property line. In fact, there was a conduit under the surface of Woodacre through which the waters of the stream were diverted. On July 28 , one of Ben's friends mentioned the existence of the conduit to Ben. Ben was amazed, and when Owen tendered a deed to Woodacre on August 1, Ben refused to accept it, stating, "I wouldn't have tried to buy Woodacre if I'd known about that conduit."

Owen files suit, demanding performance by Ben or damages for breach. Who should prevail?

(A) Owen, because Ben had ample opportunity to discover the existence of the conduit before he agreed to buy Woodacre.

(B) Owen, because the purpose for which Ben intended to use Woodacre is irrelevant.

(C) Ben, because Owen had a duty to provide a marketable title.

(D) Ben, because of the doctrine of frustration of purpose.

\section{Question 141}

Donaldson broke into Professor Ruiz's office to look at examination questions. The questions were locked in a drawer, and Donaldson could not find them. Donaldson believed that looking at examination questions was a crime, but in this belief he was mistaken. Charged with burglary, Donaldson should be:

(A) Acquitted, because he did not complete the crime and he has not been charged with attempt.

(B) Acquitted, because what he intended to do when he broke in was not a crime.

(C) Convicted, because he had the necessary mental state and committed the act of breaking and entering.

(D) Convicted, because factual impossibility is not a defense.

\section{Question 142}

Nolan was negligently driving down the road, not paying attention to where he was going. Because of this, he hit and seriously injured Sue, who was lawfully crossing the street. The accident was witnessed by Martha, who suffered extreme emotional distress that physically affected her nervous system.

Martha brings suit against Nolan for negligent infliction of emotional distress in a jurisdiction that has not adopted the "foreseeability" test for this tort.

The most likely result of the suit will be that:

(A) Martha will win, because she witnessed Sue being seriously injured by Nolan.

(B) Martha will win, because severe shock to the nervous system constitutes a physical injury.

(C) Martha will lose, unless she was crossing the street with Sue.

(D) Martha will lose, unless she was a close relative of Sue. 

\section{Question 143}

An issue in Parker's action against Daves for causing Parker's back injury was whether Parker's condition had resulted principally from a similar occurrence five years before, with which Daves had no connection.

Parker called Watts, his treating physician, who offered to testify that when she saw Parker after the latest occurrence, Parker told her that before the accident he had been working fulltime, without pain or limitation of motion, in a job that involved lifting heavy boxes.

Watts's testimony should be:

(A) Admitted, because it is a statement of Parker's then-existing physical condition.

(B) Admitted, because it is a statement made for purposes of medical diagnosis or treatment.

(C) Excluded, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

(D) Excluded, because Parker is available as a witness.

\section{Question 144}

A state statute requires the permanent removal from parental custody of any child who has suffered "child abuse." That term is defined to include "corporal punishment of any sort."

Zeller very gently spanks his six-year-old son on the buttocks whenever he believes that spanking is necessary to enforce discipline on him. Such a spanking occurs no more than once a month and has never physically harmed the child.

The state files suit under the statute to terminate Zeller's parental rights solely because of these spankings. Zeller defends only on the ground that the statute in question is unconstitutional as applied to his admitted conduct. In light of the nature of the rights involved, which of the following is the most probable burden of persuasion on this constitutional issue? (A) The state has the burden of persuading the court that the application of this statute to Zeller is necessary to vindicate a compelling state interest.

(B) The state has the burden of persuading the court that the application of this statute to Zeller is rationally related to a legitimate state interest.

(C) Zeller has the burden of persuading the court that the application of this statute to him is not necessary to vindicate an important state interest.

(D) Zeller has the burden of persuading the court that the application of this statute to him is not rationally related to a legitimate state interest.



\section{Questions 145-146} are based on the following fact situation:

Dunbar and Balcom went into a drugstore, where Dunbar reached into the cash register and took out \$ 200$. Stone, the owner of the store, came out of a back room, saw what had happened, and told Dunbar to put the money back. Balcom then took a revolver from under his coat and shot and killed Stone.

Dunbar claims that Stone owed her \$ 200$ and that she went to the drugstore to try to collect the debt. She said that she asked Balcom to come along just in case Stone made trouble but that she did not plan on using any force and did not know that Balcom was armed. 145. If Dunbar is prosecuted for murder on the basis of felony murder and the jury believes her claim, she should be found:

(A) Guilty, because her companion, Balcom, committed a homicide in the course of a felony.

(B) Guilty, because her taking Balcom with her to the store created the risk of death that occurred during the commission of a felony.

(C) Not guilty, because she did not know that Balcom was armed and thus did not have the required mental state for felony murder.

(D) Not guilty, because she believed she was entitled to the money and thus did not intend to steal.


\section{146} If Dunbar is prosecuted for murder on the basis of being an accessory to Balcom in committing a murder and the jury believes her claim, she should be found:

(A) Guilty, because in firing the shot Balcom was trying to help her.

(B) Guilty, because she and Balcom were acting in concert in a dangerous undertaking.

(C) Not guilty, because she had no idea that Balcom was armed and she did not plan to use force.

(D) Not guilty, because she was exercising self-help and did not intend to steal.

\section{Question 147}

Duncan was charged with aggravated assault. At trial Duncan did not testify; however, he sought to offer opinion evidence of his good character for truth and veracity. This testimony should be:
(A) Admitted, because a criminal defendant is entitled to offer evidence of his good character.
(B) Admitted, because a party's credibility is necessarily in issue.
(C) Excluded, because evidence of character is not admissible to prove conduct in confor- mity therewith.
(D) Excluded, because it is evidence of a trait not pertinent to the case.

\section{Question 148}

Otto conveyed Goldacre to "Andy, his heirs and assigns, but if Andy dies and is not survived by children by his present wife, Jane, then to Bob and his heirs and assigns." Shortly after taking possession, Andy discovered rich metal deposits on the land, opened a mining operation, and removed and sold a considerable quantity of valuable ore without giving Bob any notice of his action. Andy has no children. Andy, Jane, and Bob are all still living. Bob brought an action in equity for an accounting of the value of the ore removed and for an injunction against further removal.

If the decision is for Andy, it will be because:
(A) Bob has no interest in Goldacre.
(B) The right to take minerals is an incident of a defeasible fee simple.
(C) The right to take minerals is an incident of the right to possession.
(D) There was no showing that Andy acted in bad faith. 

\section{Question 149}

After being notified by Dr. Josephs that Nurse Norris's employment with his office was terminated, Norris applied for a position with Hospital. In her application, Norris listed her former employment with Josephs. Josephs, in response to a telephone inquiry from Hospital, stated that "Norris lacked professional competence." Although Josephs believed that to be a fair assessment of Norris, his adverse rating was based on one episode of malpractice for which he blamed Norris but which in fact was chargeable to another doctor. Because of Josephs's adverse comment on her qualifications, Norris was not employed by Hospital.

If Norris asserts a claim based on defamation against Josephs, will Norris prevail?

(A) Yes, because Josephs was mistaken in the facts on which he based his opinion of Norris's competence.

(B) Yes, because Josephs's statement reflected adversely on Norris's professional competence.

(C) No, if Norris authorized Hospital to make inquiry of her former employer.

(D) No, if Josephs had reasonable grounds for his belief that Norris was not competent.

\section{Question 150}

A 10-lot subdivision was approved by the proper governmental authority. The authority's action was pursuant to a map filed by Diaz, which included an undesignated parcel in addition to the 10 numbered lots. The shape of the undesignated parcel is different and somewhat larger than any one of the numbered lots. Subdivision building restrictions were imposed on "all the lots shown on said map."

Diaz contracts to sell the unnumbered lot, described by metes and bounds, to Butts. Is title to the parcel marketable?

(A) Yes, because the undesignated parcel is not a lot to which the subdivision building restrictions apply. (B) Yes, because the undesignated parcel is not part of the subdivision.

(C) No, because the undesignated parcel has never been approved by the proper governmental authority.

(D) No, because the map leaves it uncertain whether the unnumbered lot is subject to the building restrictions.

\section{Question 151}

On March 15, Venus Viniferous entered into a written agreement with Tipple Winery that provided that Venus would sell 1,600 tons of tokay grapes to Tipple for \$ 750$ per ton, delivery to be no later than November 1 of the same year. By November 1, Venus had delivered only 700 tons of grapes, and had informed Tipple by telegram that she had used the remainder of her crop in the production of her own boutique winery's latest release, Tokay With Me wine cooler. Tipple purchased an additional 900 tons of tokay grapes from other growers at the thenprevailing market price of \$ 800$ per ton. Venus has submitted an invoice to the marketing department of Tipple for \$ 525,000$. The head of marketing has come to you, Tipple's legal officer, for advice on how to respond to this billing.

Ignoring incidental costs of cover, you should advise her to:

(A) Pay the \$ 525,000$, since by accepting delivery of the 700 tons of grapes Tipple waived an objection to Venus's breach.

(B) Pay Venus the market value of her 700 tons of grapes as of November 1, less the cost of cover for the remaining 900 tons.

(C) Pay Venus \$ 480,000$, representing the contract price for the grapes she delivered less the cost of cover for the remaining 900 tons.

(D) Pay Venus nothing, since she will be unable to enforce any claim for payment in court. 

\section{Question 152}

Dray was prosecuted for bank robbery. At trial, the bank teller, Wall, was unable to identify Dray, now bearded, as the bank robber. The prosecutor then showed Wall a group of photographs, and Wall testified that she had previously told the prosecutor that the middle picture (concededly a picture of Dray before he grew a beard) was a picture of the bank robber.

Wall's testimony is:

(A) Inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

(B) Inadmissible, because it is a violation of Dray's right of confrontation.

(C) Admissible as prior identification by the witness.

(D) Admissible as past recollection recorded.



\section{Questions 153-154} are based on the following fact situation:

Barnes had been a beekeeper for many years, making a modest living selling honey in the area surrounding his farm. When he became aware of a sudden demand for beeswax for use in the manufacture of candles and certain types of exotic soaps sold in specialty shops, he built a plant to manufacture these items. The candle and soap business developed so rapidly that Barnes found it profitable to sell his bee farm to Stevens for \$ 50,000$. The sale contract provided that "Barnes reserves the right to purchase all of the beeswax produced by Stevens during the next five years at the current market price at time of delivery, delivery and payment to be made at weekly intervals, and Stevens agrees to supply in any event a minimum of 100 pounds of beeswax per month during that period."' When the sale was closed, Barnes's lawyer handed Stevens's lawyer a letter stating: "This is to notify you that I will take all of your beeswax production until further notice."' For one year, Stevens delivered to Barnes and Barnes paid for all of the beeswax produced by Stevens. During that year, Stevens, who was an expert beekeeper, increased his beeswax production by $100 \%$ by increasing the number and productivity of the bees. Stevens then proposed to Barnes that, since he had doubled production, it would only be fair that he supply Barnes with half of his new total, but in any event a minimum of 100 pounds per month, leaving Stevens free to sell the remainder of the wax at higher prices for new uses being made of beeswax. Barnes, in a signed writing, agreed to the proposal by Stevens for the remaining period of the original contract. During the following year, Stevens delivered to Barnes, and Barnes paid for, one-half of all of the beeswax produced by Stevens.

As the first year of the new contract ended, Stevens was stung by a bee and, due to an allergy, became so seriously and permanently ill and impaired as to be unable to attend to the bees. From that time on he never made another delivery to Barnes.


\section{153} The modification between Barnes and Stevens reducing the contractual amounts by $50 \%$ was:
(A) Enforceable in all respects.
(B) Enforceable only to the extent of beeswax tendered by Stevens.
(C) Unenforceable, because there was no consideration for Barnes's promise to take only one-half of the production.


\section{ Unenforceable, because of the indefi- niteness as to the quantity of the goods} Assuming that contractual obligations existed between Barnes and Stevens, Stevens's refusal to perform was:
(A) Justifiable, because he had not prom- ised to produce any beeswax.
(B) Justifiable, because his performance was excused because of his permanent disability.
(C) Justifiable only if he gave Barnes reasonable notice so that Barnes could buy beeswax elsewhere.
(D) Not justifiable and constituted a breach of contract.

\section{Question 155}

A statute in the state of Peridot permits the state to seize and dispose of real property that was used to commit or facilitate the commission of a felony drug offense. After Keith's arrest for selling cocaine out of his home, a felony, the state instituted an action of forfeiture against Keith's house and property. After notice to Keith and a hearing, a judge granted the order and the state seized the property. Six months later, after the time for any appeals had expired, the property was sold at a public auction to a third party. It was only when the third party brought an action to quiet title that Northwest Bank, the holder of a properly recorded mortgage on Keith's property, learned of the forfeiture. Because the bank's mortgage payments were automatically deducted from an account Keith had under a different name, no one at the bank was aware that the property had been seized. The only notice provided to parties other than Keith was a public notice published for three weeks in a general circulation newspaper. The bank defends the quiet title action on the ground that it did not receive the notice required under the United States Constitution to protect its interest in the property. If the court rules that Northwest Bank's rights under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment were violated by the state's seizure of the property, it will be because:

(A) In any judicial proceeding affecting rights to real property, a claimant is required to provide notice and an evidentiary hearing to all parties with a legal interest in the property before taking actions affecting their rights.

(B) The government itself was the party that seized the property, rather than a private party using governmental processes.

(C) The notice was not adequate under the circumstances to apprise a party with a properly recorded legal interest in the property.

(D) The jurisdiction treats the mortgagee as having title to the property rather than merely a lien. 

\section{Question 156}

Darren's car was stopped by Officer Jones for a minor traffic violation. The officer recognized Darren as a suspect in a multimillion-dollar bank fraud scheme that had just been discovered by the authorities. She placed Darren under arrest and gave him Miranda warnings. She then asked for permission to search the trunk of the car. Darren nodded and unlocked the trunk. Officer Jones searched the trunk and discovered a bag containing what appeared to be cocaine in a compartment in the trunk. When later tests determined that it was cocaine, the authorities added a charge of transporting illegal narcotics to Darren's indictment. At a preliminary hearing, Darren moved to have evidence of the cocaine excluded as the result of a search in violation of the Fourth Amendment.

Should the court grant Darren's motion?

(A) Yes, because one taken into custody cannot give valid consent to a search that would otherwise require a warrant.

(B) Yes, because the search exceeded the scope of a permissible search incident to a lawful arrest.

(C) No, if the court finds that Darren's consent was voluntary under the circumstances.

(D) No, because persons have a lesser expectation of privacy in their vehicles for purposes of the Fourth Amendment.

\section{Question 157}

In which of the following situations is Defendant most likely to be guilty of the crime charged?

(A) Without the permission of Owner, Defendant takes Owner's car with the intention of driving it three miles to a grocery store and back. Defendant is charged with larceny.

(B) Defendant gets permission to borrow Owner's car for the evening by falsely promising to return it, although he does not intend to do so. Two days later, he changes his mind and returns the car. Defendant is charged with larceny by trick.

(C) Defendant gets permission to borrow Owner's car for the evening by misrepresenting his identity and falsely claiming he has a valid driver's license. He returns the car the next day. Defendant is charged with obtaining property by false pretenses.

(D) With permission, Defendant, promising to return it by 9 p.m., borrows Owner's car. Later in the evening, Defendant decides to keep the car until the next morning and does so. Defendant is charged with embezzlement. 

\section{Questions 158-159} are based on the following fact situation:

In a trial between Jones and Smith, an issue arose about Smith's ownership of a horse, which had caused damage to Jones's crops.


\section{158} Jones offered to testify that he looked up Smith's telephone number in the directory, called that number, and that a voice answered, "This is Smith speaking." At this, Jones asked, "Was that your horse that tramped across my cornfield this afternoon?" The voice replied, "Yes." The judge should rule the testimony:

(A) Admissible, because the answering speaker's identification of himself, together with the usual accuracy of the telephone directory and transmission system, furnishes sufficient authentication.

(B) Admissible, because judicial notice may be taken of the accuracy of telephone directories.

(C) Inadmissible unless Jones can further testify that he was familiar with Smith's voice and that it was in fact Smith to whom he spoke.

(D) Inadmissible unless Smith has first been asked whether or not the conversation took place and has been given the opportunity to admit, deny, or explain.


\section{159} Jones seeks to introduce in evidence a photograph of his cornfield to depict the nature and extent of the damage done. The judge should rule the photograph:

(A) Admissible if Jones testifies that it fairly and accurately portrays the condition of the cornfield after the damage was done.

(B) Admissible if Jones testifies that the photograph was taken within a week after the alleged occurrence. (C) Inadmissible if Jones fails to call the photographer to testify concerning the circumstances under which the photograph was taken.

(D) Inadmissible if it is possible to describe the damage to the cornfield through direct oral testimony.

\section{Question 160}

Pursuant to a state statute, Clovis applied for tuition assistance to attend the Institute of Liberal Arts. He was qualified for such assistance in every way except that he was a resident alien who did not intend to become a United States citizen.

The state's restriction of such grants to United States citizens or resident aliens seeking such citizenship is probably:

(A) Valid, because aliens are not per se "a discrete and insular minority" specially protected by the Fourteenth Amendment.

(B) Valid, because the line drawn by the state for extending aid was reasonably related to a legitimate state interest.

(C) Invalid, because the justifications for this restriction are insufficient to overcome the burden imposed on a state when it uses such an alienage classification.

(D) Invalid, because the Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV does not permit such an arbitrary classification. 

\section{Question 161}

Allen and Barker are equal tenants in common of a strip of land 10 feet wide and 100 feet deep which lies between the lots on which their respective homes are situated. Both Allen and Barker need the use of the 10 -foot strip as a driveway; and each fears that a new neighbor might seek partition and leave him with an unusable five-foot strip.

The best measure to solve their problem is:
(A) A covenant against partition.
(B) An indenture granting cross-easements in the undivided half interest of each.
(C) A partition into two separate five-foot-wide strips and an indenture granting cross- easements.
(D) A trust to hold the strip in perpetuity.

\section{Question 162}

In 1956, Silo Cement Company constructed a plant for manufacturing ready-mix concrete in Lakeville. At that time Silo was using bagged cement, which caused little or no dust. In 1970, Petrone bought a home approximately 1,800 feet from the Silo plant. One year ago, Silo stopped using bagged cement and began to receive cement in bulk shipments. Since then at least five truckloads of cement have passed Petrone's house daily. Cement blows off the trucks and into Petrone's house. When the cement arrives at the Silo plant, it is blown by forced air from the trucks into the storage bin. As a consequence, cement dust fills the air surrounding the plant to a distance of 2,000 feet. Petrone's house is the only residence within 2,000 feet of the plant.

If Petrone asserts a claim against Silo based on nuisance, will Petrone prevail?
(A) Yes, unless using bagged cement would substantially increase Silo's costs.
(B) Yes, if the cement dust interfered unreason- ably with the use and enjoyment of Petrone's property.
(C) No, because Silo is not required to change its industrial methods to accommodate the needs of one individual.
(D) No, if Silo's methods are in conformity with those in general use in the industry.

\section{Question 163}
Congress enacts a law providing that all disagreements between the United States and a state over federal grant-in-aid funds shall be settled by the filing of suit in the federal district court in the affected state. "The judgment of that federal court shall be transmitted to the head of the federal agency dispensing such funds, who, if satisfied that the judgment is fair and lawful, shall execute the judgment according to its terms."

This law is:

(A) Constitutional, because disagreements over federal grant-in-aid funds necessarily involve federal questions within the judicial power of the United States.

(B) Constitutional, because the spending of federal monies necessarily includes the authority to provide for the effective settlement of disputes involving them.

(C) Unconstitutional, because it vests authority in the federal court to determine a matter prohibited to it by the Eleventh Amendment.

(D) Unconstitutional, because it vests authority in a federal court to render an advisory opinion. 

\section{Question 164}

In a civil suit by Pine against Decker, Decker called Wall, a chemist, as an expert witness and asked him a number of questions about his education and experience in chemistry. Over Pine's objection that Wall was not shown to be qualified in chemistry, the trial court permitted Wall to testify as to his opinion in response to a hypothetical question.

On cross-examination, Pine asked Wall if he had failed two chemistry courses while doing his graduate work. The answer should be:

(A) Admitted, because it is relevant to the weight to be given Wall's testimony.

(B) Admitted, because specific acts bearing on truthfulness may be inquired about on cross-examination.

(C) Excluded, because the court has determined that Wall is qualified to testify as an expert.

(D) Excluded, because Wall's character has not been put in issue.

\section{Question 165}

Davison was driving through an apartment building area plagued with an unusually high incidence of burglaries and assaults. Acting pursuant to a police department plan to combat crime by the random stopping of automobiles in the area between midnight and 6 a.m., a police officer stopped Davison and asked him for identification. As Davison handed the officer his license, the officer directed a flashlight into the automobile and saw what appeared to be the barrel of a shotgun protruding from under the front seat on the passenger side of the car. The officer ordered Davison from the car, searched him, and discovered marijuana cigarettes and a shotgun.

At Davison's trial for unlawful possession of narcotics, his motion to suppress the use of the marijuana as evidence should be:

(A) Sustained, because the marijuana was discovered as a result of the unlawful stopping of Davison's automobile. (B) Sustained, because the use of the flashlight constituted a search of the interior of Davison's automobile without probable cause.

(C) Denied, because the officer's conduct was consistent with the established police plan.

(D) Denied, because the discovery of the gun in plain view created the reasonable suspicion necessary to justify the arrest and search of Davison.

\section{Question 166}

Hunko, a popular professional wrestler, entered into a written agency contract with Adman, who agreed to try to get Hunko's picture on a variety of food products. Hunko promised that Adman would have the exclusive right to promote Hunko on food product lines. They agreed that Hunko would receive $70 \%$ of the proceeds and Adman would receive $30 \%$. Adman was able to persuade the makers of "Chocolate Charms" breakfast cereal to put Hunko's picture on the cereal boxes. Shortly after Adman confirmed the Chocolate Charms deal with the cereal manufacturer, Hunko and Adman agreed orally that henceforth Hunko would receive $50 \%$ of the proceeds, including proceeds from the Chocolate Charms deal, and Adman would receive the other $50 \%$. Hunko received a \$ 10,000$ check from Chocolate Charms, and he promptly sent Adman a check for \$ 3,000$. Adman demanded an additional \$ 2,000$, but Hunko refused to pay.

If Adman sues Hunko for the \$ 2,000$, the party likely to prevail is:

(A) Hunko, because of the parol evidence rule.

(B) Adman, because consideration is not required for a modification.

(C) Hunko, because Adman had a preexisting legal duty to secure food product promotions for Hunko.

(D) Hunko, because an exclusive contract requires that the party given the privileges of exclusivity use his best efforts. 

\section{Question 167}

At a time when Ogawa held Lot 1 in the Fairoaks subdivision in fee simple, Vine executed a warranty deed that recited that Vine conveyed Lot 1, Fairoaks, to Purvis. The deed was promptly and duly recorded.

After the recording of the deed from Vine to Purvis, Ogawa conveyed Lot 1 to Vine by a warranty deed that was promptly and duly recorded. Later, Vine conveyed the property to Rand by warranty deed and the deed was promptly and duly recorded. Rand paid the fair market value of Lot 1 and had no knowledge of any claim of Purvis.

In an appropriate action, Rand and Purvis contest title to Lot 1 . In this action, judgment should be for:

(A) Purvis, because Purvis's deed is senior to Rand's.

(B) Rand, because Rand paid value without notice of Purvis's claim.

(C) Purvis or Rand, depending on whether a subsequent grantee is bound, at common law, by the doctrine of estoppel by deed.

(D) Purvis or Rand, depending on whether Purvis's deed is deemed recorded in Rand's chain of title.

\section{Question 168}

Paul sued Dave for making a slanderous statement that greatly embarrassed Paul. Dave denied that he ever made such a statement. At trial, Paul called Willie to the stand, and Willie testified that he heard Dave make the statement on August 4. Dave discredited Willie, and Park offers evidence of Willie's good reputation for truthfulness.

The rehabilitation is most likely to be permitted if the discrediting evidence by Dave was testimony that:

(A) Willie and Paul had known each other since childhood. (B) Willie had been convicted of perjury in an unrelated case.

(C) Willie had attended a school for mentally retarded children.

(D) Willie disliked Dave.



\section{Questions 169-171} are based on the following fact situation:

Poe ordered some merchandise from Store. When the merchandise was delivered, Poe decided that it was not what he had ordered, and he returned it for credit. Store refused to credit Poe's account, continued to bill him, and, after 90 days, turned the account over to Kane, a bill collector, for collection.

Kane called at Poe's house at 7 p.m. on a summer evening while many of Poe's neighbors were seated on their porches. When Poe opened the door, Kane, who was standing just outside the door, raised an electrically amplified bullhorn to his mouth. In a voice that could be heard a block away, Kane called Poe a "deadbeat" and asked him when he intended to pay his bill to Store.

Poe, greatly angered, slammed the door shut. The door struck the bullhorn and jammed it forcibly against Kane's face. As a consequence, Kane lost some of his front teeth.


\section{169} If Poe asserts a claim based on defamation against Kane, will Poe prevail?
(A) Yes, if Kane's remarks were heard by any of Poe's neighbors.
(B) Yes, because Kane's conduct was extreme and outrageous.
(C) No, unless Kane knew that Poe owed no money to Store.


\section{ No, unless Poe suffered some special damage} If Poe asserts a claim based on intentional infliction of emotional distress against Kane, will Poe prevail?
(A) Yes, because Kane's conduct was extreme and outrageous.
(B) Yes, because Kane was intruding on Poe's property.
(C) No, unless Poe suffered physical harm.
(D) No, if Poe still owed Store for the merchandise.


\section{171} If Kane asserts a claim based on battery against Poe, will Kane prevail?
(A) Yes, because Poe had not first asked Kane to leave the property.
(B) Yes, if Poe knew that the door was substantially certain to strike the bullhorn.
(C) No, if Kane's conduct triggered Poe's response.
(D) No, because Kane was an intruder on Poe's property.

\section{Question 172}

Rimm and Hill were fooling around with a pistol in Hill's den. Rimm aimed the pistol in Hill's direction and fired three shots slightly to Hill's right. One shot ricocheted off the wall and struck Hill in the back, killing him instantly.

The most serious crime of which Rimm can be convicted is:
(A) Murder.
(B) Voluntary manslaughter.
(C) Involuntary manslaughter.
(D) Assault with a dangerous weapon.

\section{Question 173}

When the latest generation of interactive video games reached the video arcades in State Russet, community groups and civic leaders were alarmed to discover that the most popular games among young teenagers had graphic displays of violence and sexual themes. The state legislature quickly responded to the public outcry. With the stated aim of protecting minors from the perceived evils of offensive but not necessarily obscene materials, the legislature enacted a statute banning the commercial licensing of video arcade games with a specifically defined degree of graphic violent or sexual content.

Delmar, the owner of a chain of video arcades in State Russet shopping malls, was denied licenses for a number of video games that he wanted to install at his arcades. He challenges the state's action in federal district court.

The court will probably find the State Russet statute:

(A) Constitutional, because for materials accessible to minors, the state may adopt a different standard for determining whether the material is offensive or obscene than the standard it applies for adults.

(B) Constitutional, because the statute precisely defines the type of content that is prohibited in the video games.

(C) Unconstitutional, because narrower means are available to deny minors access to the objectionable material without affecting rights of adults.

(D) Unconstitutional, because some of the banned video games may have serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value, as determined by contemporary community standards, and thus do not fall within the definition of obscenity. 

\section{Question 174}

Dent and Wren were playing golf. After they had completed nine holes, Dent left to make a telephone call. When he returned, he told Wren, "My wife was just involved in an accident. She ran a red light and hit another car. I have to skip the back nine." After arriving at the scene of the accident, Dent, after talking with bystanders, determined that his wife had not driven through a red light. Notch, the driver of the other car, brought suit against Dent's wife for injuries suffered in the accident. To help establish liability, Notch seeks to have Wren testify as to Dent's statements on the golf course.

Wren's testimony is:
(A) Admissible as an admission.
(B) Admissible as a statement against interest.
(C) Inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any recognized exception.
(D) Inadmissible, because it constitutes opin- ion.

\section{Question 175}

Ortega owned Blackacre in fee simple and by his will specifically devised Blackacre as follows: "To my daughter, Eugenia, her heirs and assigns, but if Eugenia dies survived by a husband, a child or children, then to Eugenia's husband during his lifetime with remainder to Eugenia's children, their heirs and assigns. Specifically provided, however, that if Eugenia dies survived by a husband and no child, Blackacre is specifically devised to my nephew, Luis, his heirs and assigns."

While Ortega's will was in probate, Luis quitclaimed all his interest in Blackacre to Eugenia's husband, Jose. Three years later Eugenia died, survived by Jose but no children. Eugenia left a will devising her interest in Blackacre to Jose. The only applicable statute provides that any interest in land is freely alienable.

Luis instituted an appropriate action against Jose to establish title to Blackacre. Judgment should be for:
(A) Luis, because his quitclaim deed did not transfer his after-acquired title.
(B) Luis, because Jose took nothing under Ortega's will.
(C) Jose, because Luis had effectively con- veyed his interest to Jose.
(D) Jose, because the doctrine of after-acquired title applies to a devise by will.



\section{Questions 176-177} are based on the following fact situation:

On June 1, Kravat, a manufacturer of men's neckties, received the following order from Clothier: "Ship 500 two-inch ties, assorted stripes, your catalogue No. V34. Delivery by July $1 . "$

On June 1, Kravat shipped 500 three-inch ties that arrived at Clothier's place of business on June 3. Clothier immediately telegraphed Kravat: "Reject your shipment. Order was for two-inch ties." Clothier, however, did not ship the ties back to Kravat. Kravat replied by telegram: "Will deliver proper ties before July 1." Clothier received this telegram on June 4, but did not reply to it.

On June 30, Kravat tendered 500 two-inch ties in assorted stripes, designated in his catalogue as item No. V34; but Clothier refused to accept them.


\section{176} Did Clothier properly reject the ties delivered on June 3?
(A) Yes, because the ties were noncon- forming goods.
(B) Yes, because Kravat did not notify Clothier that the ties were shipped as an accommodation to Clothier.
(C) No, because Kravat could accept Clothier's offer by prompt shipment of either conforming or nonconforming goods.


\section{ No, because Clothier waived his right to reject the ties by not returning them promptly to Kravat} Did Clothier properly reject the ties tendered on June 30 ?
(A) Yes, because Kravat's shipping the three-inch ties on June 1 was a present breach of contract.
(B) Yes, because Kravat's shipping the three-inch ties on June 1 was an anticipatory repudiation.
(C) No, because Kravat cured the June 1 defective delivery by his tender of conforming goods on June 30.
(D) No, because a contract for the sale of goods can be modified without con- sideration.

\section{Question 178}

Deanna was moving to Russia to work in a foreign policy institute, and was in the process of moving out of the apartment that she had shared with Vanessa, who was not in at the time. Just before leaving, Deanna collected numerous items of hers from Vanessa's room that Vanessa had borrowed, usually without permission. As she was leaving the apartment, she grabbed what she believed to be her laptop computer, which Vanessa had often borrowed to do reports for work. Because it was an older, slower machine, she planned to trade it in for a different model at a computer resale store during a stopover in London. When she arrived at the computer store she discovered that she had taken a brand new, state-of-the-art laptop that Vanessa had apparently just purchased.

Is Deanna guilty of larceny of the computer?

(A) No, because she mistakenly believed that the computer she had picked up was hers.

(B) No, if her mistake as to whose computer she had picked up was reasonable.

(C) Yes, because she intended to permanently deprive Vanessa of the computer when she took it.

(D) Yes, if she decides to keep the computer or trade it in for a different one.

\section{Question 179}

Don Dent was on trial for the murder of Michael Richards. At the trial, Dent put forth the defense of self-defense, claiming that Michael was about to kill him when he shot Michael. To help establish that he was in fear of Michael, Dent called Walter to testify. Walter will testify that he heard Sam Smith say to Dent, "Michael Richards is a mean, vicious killer; he has murdered three people in the past year."

Walter's testimony is:
(A) Admissible under the state of mind excep- tion to the hearsay rule.
(B) Admissible nonhearsay.
(C) Inadmissible, because it is hearsay not covered by an exception.
(D) Inadmissible, because it does not help establish that Dent acted in self-defense. 

\section{Question 180}

Lordsville was a small, agricultural village with a population of 400 . It was a quiet, conservative town, and $90 \%$ of the inhabitants belonged to the Lordsville Church of Jesus, a whitewashed frame building located on Lordsville's main street. The Lordsville Village Council consisted of five members, all of whom were members of the Lordsville Church of Jesus. The Council unanimously appropriated \$ 350$ to pay Mower to mow the lawn of the Lordsville Church of Jesus for a year. Mower was a 15-year-old resident of Lordsville and a member of the Lordsville Church of Jesus whose father had been killed the previous year when he was struck by lightning. Curmudgeon, a Lordsville resident, lived in a tiny house and paid only \$200 per year in village and county property taxes, but he was incensed that any of it should go to support what he called "a bunch of holier-thanthou, superstitious, holy-rollers." Curmudgeon filed suit in federal district court to strike down the Council's appropriation to mow the church lawn.

Should the court entertain Curmudgeon's suit?

(A) No, because Curmudgeon paid so little in taxes that his interest in the matter, if any, is too minimal.

(B) No, because taxpayers lack standing to sue over appropriations by duly constituted legislative bodies.

(C) Yes, because a taxpayer may sue under the authority of the First Amendment's Establishment Clause if a fund into which he has paid is being used for religious purposes.

(D) Yes, because taxpayers have standing to sue when questions involving constitutional rights are at issue.

\section{Question 181}

Acorp and Beeco are companies that each manufacture pesticide $\mathrm{X}$. Their plants are located along the same river. During a specific $24-$ hour period, each plant discharged pesticide into the river. Both plants were operated negligently and such negligence caused the discharge of the pesticide into the river.

Landesmann operated a cattle ranch downstream from the plants of Acorp and Beeco. Landesmann's cattle drank from the river and were poisoned by the pesticide. The amount of the discharge from either plant alone would not have been sufficient to cause any harm to Landesmann's cattle.

If Landesmann asserts a claim against Acorp and Beeco, what, if anything, will Landesmann recover?

(A) Nothing, because neither company discharged enough pesticide to cause harm to Landesmann's cattle.

(B) Nothing, unless Landesmann can establish how much pesticide each plant discharged.

(C) One-half of Landesmann's damages from each company.

(D) The entire amount of Landesmann's damages, jointly and severally, from the two companies. 

\section{Question 182}

For a valuable consideration, Amato, the owner of Riveracre, signed and gave to Barton a duly executed instrument that provided as follows: "The grantor may or may not sell Riveracre during her lifetime, but at her death, or if she earlier decides to sell, the property will be offered to Barton at \$ 500$ per acre. Barton shall exercise this right, if at all, within 60 days of receipt of said offer to sell." Barton recorded the instrument. The instrument was not valid as a will.

Is Barton's right under the instrument valid?

(A) Yes, because the instrument is recorded.

(B) Yes, because Barton's right to purchase will vest or fail within the period prescribed by the Rule Against Perpetuities.

(C) No, because Barton's right to purchase is a restraint on the owner's power to make a testamentary disposition.

(D) No, because Barton's right to purchase is an unreasonable restraint on alienation.

\section{Question 183}

In a contract suit by Perez against Drake, each of the following is an accepted method of authenticating Drake's signature on a document offered by Perez except:

(A) A nonexpert who, in preparation for trial, has familiarized himself with Drake's usual signature testifies that, in his opinion, the questioned signature is genuine.

(B) The jury, without the assistance of an expert, compares the questioned signature with an admittedly authentic sample of Drake's handwriting.

(C) A witness offers proof that the signature is on a document that has been in existence for at least 20 years, that was in a place where it would likely be if it was authentic, and that has no suspicious circumstances surrounding it.

(D) A witness testifies that Drake admitted that the signature was his. 

\section{Question 184}

The industrial city of Tunbridge suffered from battles over gang turf and a rash of drive-by shootings. Most street gangs were affiliated with one of the two loose gang confederations that fought for dominance, the Assassins and the Ghouls. To "issue a warning" to the Ghouls, a carload of Assassins, armed with Uzi submachine guns, sped into the Ghouls' neighborhood. It was late at night when the car passed a corner store, around which the Ghouls were known to congregate during daylight hours. The Assassins knew that the store closed at 6 p.m. and that the Ghouls went elsewhere after nightfall. As the Assassins drove by, they sprayed the store with submachine gunfire, smashing the windows and pocking the brick exteriors. One of the bullets struck and killed Jamie, a six-yearold girl who was asleep in an apartment located on the second floor, above the corner store. A few days later, the police arrested Dennison, who admitted to being a member of the Assassins and to having been in the car when the Assassins shot up the store. Dennison was placed on trial for the murder of Jamie.

If Dennison takes the stand in his own defense, and the jury believes Dennison's testimony, which of the following assertions by Dennison would be his best defense to the murder charge?
(A) "I was the driver of the car and did not actually shoot into the building."
(B) "I took a lot of drugs that night, and I was so high that I don't even remember the incident; I was certainly in no condition to form an intent to kill somebody."
(C) "Another member of my gang pointed a gun at me. I was really scared that if I didn't shoot into the building I would be seriously injured or killed myself."
(D) "I believed that the building was aban- doned and had no idea that there would be people inside it."



\section{Questions 185-186} are based on the following fact situation:

Orris had title to Brownacre in fee simple. Without Orris's knowledge, Hull entered Brownacre in 1950 and constructed an earthen dam across a watercourse. The earthen dam trapped water that Hull used to water a herd of cattle he owned. After 12 years of possession of Brownacre, Hull gave possession of Brownacre to Burns. At the same time, Hull also purported to transfer his cattle and all his interests in the dam and water to Burns by a document that was sufficient as a bill of sale to transfer personal property but was insufficient as a deed to transfer real property.

One year later, Burns entered into a lease with Orris to lease Brownacre for a period of five years. After the end of the five-year term of the lease, Burns remained on Brownacre for an additional three years and then left Brownacre. At that time Orris conveyed Brownacre by a quitclaim deed to Powell. The period of time to acquire title by adverse possession in the jurisdiction is 10 years.


\section{185} After Orris's conveyance to Powell, title to Brownacre was in:
(A) Hull.
(B) Orris.
(C) Burns.


\section{ Powell} After Orris's conveyance to Powell, title to the earthen dam was in:
(A) The person who then held title to Brownacre in fee simple.
(B) Burns, as purchaser of the dam under the bill of sale.
(C) The person who then owned the water rights as an incident thereto.
(D) Hull, as the builder of the dam.

\section{Question 187}

A statute authorizes a specified federal administrative agency to issue rules governing the distribution of federal grant funds for scientific research. The statute provides that, in issuing those rules, the agency must follow procedures and substantive standards contained in the statute. In a severable provision, the statute also provides that otherwise valid rules issued by the agency under authority delegated to it by this statute may be set aside by a majority vote of a designated standing joint committee of Congress.

The provision of this statute relating to the power of the designated standing joint committee of Congress is:

(A) Constitutional, because it is a necessary and proper means of ensuring that the rules issued by this agency are actually consistent with the will of Congress.

(B) Constitutional, because discretionary money grants authorized by statute are privileges, not rights, and, therefore, Congress has greater freedom to intervene in their administration than it has to intervene in the administration of regulatory laws. (C) Unconstitutional, because it denies equal protection of the laws to members of Congress who are not appointed to the joint legislative committee authorized to set aside rules of this agency.

(D) Unconstitutional, because it authorizes a congressional change of legal rights and obligations by means other than those specified in the Constitution for the enactment of laws.

\section{Question 188}

Johnson and Tenniel owned Brownacre as joint tenants with the right of survivorship. Johnson executed a mortgage on Brownacre to Lowden to secure a loan. Subsequently, but before the indebtedness was paid to Lowden, Johnson died intestate with Stokes as her only heir at law. The jurisdiction in which Brownacre is located recognizes the title theory of mortgages.

In an appropriate action, the court should determine that title to Brownacre is vested:

(A) In Tenniel, with the entire interest subject to the mortgage.

(B) In Tenniel, free and clear of the mortgage.

(C) Half in Tenniel, free of the mortgage, and half in Stokes subject to the mortgage.

(D) Half in Tenniel and half in Stokes, with both subject to the mortgage. 

\section{Question 189}

In 1980 Omar, the owner in fee simple absolute, conveyed Stoneacre, a five-acre tract of land. The relevant, operative words of the deed conveyed to "Church [a duly organized religious body having power to hold property] for the life of my son, Carl, and from and after the death of my said son, Carl, to all of my grandchildren and their heirs and assigns in equal shares; provided that Church shall use the premises for church purposes only."

In an existing building on Stoneacre, Church immediately began to conduct religious services and other activities normally associated with a church.

In 1995, Church granted to Darin a right to remove sand and gravel from a one-half acre portion of Stoneacre upon the payment of royalty. Darin has regularly removed sand and gravel since 1995 and paid a royalty to Church. Church has continued to conduct religious services and other church activities on Stoneacre.

All four of the living grandchildren of Omar, joined by a guardian ad litem to represent unborn grandchildren, instituted suit against Church and Darin seeking damages for the removal of sand and gravel and an injunction preventing further acts of removal. There is no applicable statute.

Which of the following best describes the likely disposition of this lawsuit?

(A) The plaintiffs should succeed, because the interest of Church terminated with the first removal of sand and gravel.

(B) Church and Darin should be enjoined, and damages should be recovered but impounded for future distribution.

(C) The injunction should be granted, but damages should be denied, because Omar and Carl are not parties to the action.

(D) Damages should be awarded, but the injunction should be denied.

\section{Question 190}

Defendant, a worker in a metal working shop, had long been teasing Vincent, a young colleague, by calling him insulting names and ridiculing him. One day Vincent responded to the teasing by picking up a metal bar and attacking Defendant. Defendant could have escaped from the shop. He parried the blow with his left arm, and with his right hand struck Vincent a blow on his jaw from which the young man died.

What is the most serious offense of which Defendant could be properly convicted?
(A) Involuntary manslaughter.
(B) Voluntary manslaughter.
(C) Murder.
(D) None of the above.

\section{Question 191}

Dean, charged with murder, was present with her attorney at a preliminary examination when White, who was the defendant in a separate prosecution for concealing the body of the murder victim, testified for the prosecution against Dean. When called to testify at Dean's trial, White refused to testify, although ordered to do so.

The prosecution offers evidence of White's testimony at the preliminary examination. The evidence is:
(A) Admissible as former testimony.
(B) Admissible as past recollection recorded.
(C) Inadmissible, because it would violate White's privilege against self-incrimina- tion.
(D) Inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception. 

\section{Question 192}

The town of Hometown had a municipal auditorium that all groups were permitted to use. Lately, Bhagwan Bigbucks has begun to hold recruiting seminars for his religious cult at the auditorium. Sensing the displeasure of the voting public and fearing that the auditorium would become a mecca of fringe religious groups, the Hometown Town Council adopted the following ordinance: "Effective immediately, no religious groups will be permitted to use the Municipal Auditorium for meetings, speeches, or other public gatherings."

Bigbucks, who was having great success recruiting followers in Hometown, challenged the constitutionality of the ordinance in federal court. His suit should:

(A) Fail, because the ordinance treats all religions equally.

(B) Fail, because continuing to allow religious groups to use the auditorium would violate the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.

(C) Succeed, because "religious groups" is an unconstitutionally vague term.

(D) Succeed, unless Hometown can show that the ordinance serves a compelling government interest.

\section{Question 193}

Light Company is the sole distributor of electrical power in City. The company owns and maintains all of the electric poles and equipment in City. Light Company has complied with the National Electrical Safety Code, which establishes minimum requirements for the installation and maintenance of power poles. The Code has been approved by the federal and state governments.

Light Company has had to replace insulators on its poles repeatedly because unknown persons repeatedly shoot at and destroy them. This causes the power lines to fall to the ground. On one of these occasions, Paul, Faber's five-yearold son, wandered out of Faber's yard, intentionally touched a downed wire, and was seriously burned.

If a claim on Paul's behalf is asserted against Light Company, the probable result is that Paul will:

(A) Recover if Light Company could have taken reasonable steps to prevent the lines from falling when the insulators were destroyed.

(B) Recover, because a supplier of electricity is strictly liable in tort.

(C) Not recover unless Light Company failed to exercise reasonable care to stop the destruction of the insulators.

(D) Not recover, because the destruction of the insulators was intentional. 

\section{Question 194}

Santos agreed to sell and Perrine agreed to buy a described lot on which a single-family residence had been built. Under the contract, Santos agreed to convey marketable title subject only to conditions, covenants, and restrictions of record and all applicable zoning laws and ordinances. The lot was subject to a 10 -foot side line setback originally set forth in the developer's duly recorded subdivision plot. The applicable zoning ordinance zones the property for single-family units and requires an 8.5-foot side line setback.

Prior to closing, a survey of the property was made. It revealed that a portion of Santos's house was $8.4$ feet from the side line.

Perrine refused to consummate the transaction on the ground that Santos's title is not marketable. In an appropriate action, Santos seeks specific performance.

Who will prevail in such an action?
(A) Santos, because any suit against Perrine concerning the setback would be frivolous.
(B) Santos, because the setback violation falls within the doctrine of de minimis non curat lex.
(C) Perrine, because any variation, however small, amounts to a breach of contract.
(D) Perrine, because the fact that Perrine may be exposed to litigation is sufficient to make the title unmarketable.

\section{Question 195}

According to a statute of the state of Kiowa, a candidate for state office may have his name placed on the official election ballot only if he files with the appropriate state official a petition containing a specified number of voter signatures. Roderick failed to get his name placed on the state ballot as an independent candidate for governor because he failed to file a petition with the number of voter signatures required by state statute. In a suit against the appropriate state officials in federal district court, Roderick sought an injunction against the petition signature requirement on the ground that it was unconstitutional.

Which of the following, if established, constitutes the strongest argument for Roderick?
(A) Compliance with the petition signature requirement is burdensome.
(B) The objectives of the statute could be satisfactorily achieved by less burdensome means.
(C) Because of the petition signature require- ment, very few independent candidates have ever succeeded in getting on the ballot.
(D) The motivation for the statute was a desire to keep candidates off the ballot if they did not have strong support among voters. 

\section{Question 196}

Alford was a suspect in a homicide committed during a robbery of a liquor store. Barber was a friend of Alford. Police telephoned Barber and asked if he would help locate Alford. Barber agreed and met the police officers at headquarters later that night.

After a discussion during which police asked questions about Alford and the homicide, Barber said that he wanted to get something "off his chest" and advised the officers that he was in on the robbery but that Alford had shot the owner of the store without his permission or prior knowledge. The officers then for the first time gave Barber his Miranda warnings.

Barber was indicted for felony murder. He moved to prevent the introduction of his statement into evidence. His motion should be:

(A) Granted, because Barber was effectively in custody and entitled to receive Miranda warnings at the beginning of the discussion.

(B) Granted, because Barber's right to counsel and due process were violated by the interrogation at police headquarters.

(C) Denied, because his statement was freely and voluntarily given and he was not entitled to Miranda warnings.

(D) Denied, because by visiting headquarters voluntarily, Barber waived his right to have Miranda warnings at the beginning of the discussion.

\section{Question 197}

Astin left her car at Garrison's Garage to have repair work done. After completing the repairs, Garrison took the car out for a test drive and was involved in an accident that caused damages to Placek.

A statute imposes liability on the owner of an automobile for injuries to a third party that are caused by the negligence of any person driving the automobile with the owner's consent. The statute applies to situations of this kind, even if the owner did not specifically authorize the mechanic to test-drive the car.

Placek sued Astin and Garrison jointly for damages arising from the accident. In that action, Astin cross-claims to recover from Garrison the amount of any payment Astin may be required to make to Placek. The trier of fact has determined that the accident was caused solely by negligent driving on Garrison's part, and that Placek's damages were \$ 100,000$.

In this action, the proper outcome will be that:

(A) Placek should have judgment for \$ 50,000$ each against Astin and Garrison; Astin should recover nothing from Garrison.

(B) Placek should have judgment for \$ 100,000$ against Garrison only.

(C) Placek should have judgment for \$ 100,000$ against Astin and Garrison jointly, and Astin should have judgment against Garrison for $50 \%$ of any amount collected from Astin by Placek.

(D) Placek should have judgment for \$ 100,000$ against Astin and Garrison jointly, and Astin should have judgment against Garrison for any amount collected from Astin by Placek. 

\section{Questions 198-199} are based on the following fact situation:

Although by all appearances Herb and Edna, an elderly couple, were destitute, they had, in fact, substantial cash in the bank. Their new neighbors, the Smiths, feeling sorry for them on Thanksgiving, bought a month's supply of food and gave it to Herb and Edna. Later, Edna confided in the Smiths that she and Herb had money and told them that, because they had been so kind, she was leaving them money in her will. All of Herb's and Edna's bank accounts were held in joint tenancy. When Edna died, at the Smiths' request Herb gave the Smiths the following signed instrument: "In consideration of my wife's promise to the Smiths, and their agreement not to sue her estate, I agree to pay them the sum of \$ 5,000$." When Herb died of a heart attack several days later, the Smiths asked the administrator of his estate to pay them the \$ 5,000$. The administrator refused on the ground that there was no consideration for the agreement.


\section{198} Besides the consideration stated in Herb's written instrument, what other fact would strengthen the Smiths' claim?
(A) They would have never given the food if they had known Herb and Edna had money.
(B) They believed they could sue Edna's estate.
(C) The majority of the funds in the bank were left to Edna by her parents.
(D) Edna's promise to them was in writ- ing.


\section{199} On which of the following theories would it be most likely that the Smiths would recover?

(A) Herb's written instrument was a binding unilateral contract.

(B) Herb's acceptance of the food was fraudulent.
(C) Herb is bound by promissory estoppel.
(D) Herb and the Smiths entered into a valid compromise.

\section{Question 200}

Vincent was engaged in a telephone conversation with Walter. At one point in the conversation, Vincent said to Walter, "There's my doorbell. Hold the line a minute while I go see who it is." Two minutes later Vincent returned to the phone. He told Walter, "Dornbach is here. I'll have to hang up. Talk to you later." The next morning, Vincent's housekeeper found him dead and obviously the victim of foul play. Dornbach was arrested and charged with Vincent's murder.

The prosecution seeks to have Walter testify at Dornbach's trial as to Walter's telephone conversation with Vincent. The prosecution's attempt is met by an objection from the defense.

How should the court rule on Walter's testimony?
(A) Admissible, as a present sense impression.
(B) Admissible, as evidence of the victim's state of mind.
(C) Admissible, as a prior identification.
(D) Inadmissible, as hearsay not within any recognized exception to the hearsay rule. 

\section{ANSWER KEY AND SUBJECT MATTER KEY}
















\section{196}

C Criminal Law/Procedure-confessions


\section{197}

D Torts-indemnity


\section{198} B $\quad$ B $\quad$ Contracts-consideration


\section{199} D Contracts-consideration


\section{200} A Evidence-hearsay/present sense impression 

\section{MULTISTATE PRACTICE EXAM ANALYTICAL ANSWERS}

\section{Answer to Question 1}

(C) The court should suppress all of the evidence because it was the fruit of an unlawful arrest. As a general rule, the police must have an arrest warrant to effect an arrest of an individual in his own home. There is no general "emergency" exception to the warrant requirement. While police officers in hot pursuit of a fleeing felon or trying to prevent the destruction of evidence may sometimes make a warrantless search and seizure, the burden is on the government to show that one of those exceptions applies. Here, the police did not arrive at Dennis's house in hot pursuit of Dennis, and there was no indication that Dennis might be destroying the money or other evidence; i.e., there were no circumstances precluding them from keeping the house under surveillance while they obtained a warrant. Hence, the arrest was illegal. Because an arrest constitutes a seizure under the Fourth Amendment, the exclusionary rule applies, and evidence that is the fruit of the unlawful arrest may not be used against the defendant at trial. Here, all of the evidence was seized without a warrant and none of the other exceptions to the warrant requirement are applicable. While the protective sweep that turned up the money and gun probably would have been within the bounds of a search incident to an arrest because the police had reason to believe an armed accomplice was present, the illegality of the arrest makes the search unlawful. Similarly, while the bags of marijuana were discovered in plain view, the police have to be legitimately on the premises for that exception to apply. Thus, (C) is correct; (A), (B), and (D) are incorrect.

\section{Answer to Question 2}

(C) Threedee cannot compel Plannah to resume performance. Contracts for personal services are not subject to specific performance notwithstanding the fact that damages might be inadequate or difficult to assess or the services to be performed are unique. The courts reason that specific performance of personal service contracts is tantamount to involuntary servitude and would present enforcement problems. At most, Threedee would be able to obtain an injunction to prevent Plannah from working on another project at the times Plannah agreed to work for Threedee. Thus, (C) is correct and (A) is incorrect. (B) is incorrect because it is irrelevant. Whether specific performance is available at all generally depends on whether the subject matter is unique, but even a contract for unique services cannot be enforced by specific performance. The fact that a party has begun performance is irrelevant. (D) is incorrect because duties involving personal skill and judgment may not be delegated absent consent by the obligee (Threedee). Plannah did not have Threedee's consent and so there was no valid delegation.

\section{Answer to Question 3}

(A) Conclusions I. and II. are correct, and III. is incorrect. I. is correct because when contractual duties are delegated, the delegator remains liable on the contract, even if the delegate assumes the duties. The result might be different if the obligee expressly consented to the delegation of duties and released the original obligee (a novation), but that did not happen here. Here, Threedee allowed Drafty to proceed with the design work, but that does not, without more, constitute a novation. II. is also correct. The liability of a delegate turns on whether there has been a mere "delegation" or delegation plus an "assumption of duty." Here the delegate, Drafty, "assumed the duties" by making a promise to perform supported by consideration (i.e., the right to collect Plannah's fees). Thus, the non-delegating party (Threedee) can sue for nonperformance. III. is incorrect because the facts do not describe a "divisible" contract. The rule of divisibility allows a party who has performed one of the units of a divisible contract to claim the agreed upon fee for that unit even though he fails to perform the other units. The three requirements are: (i) performance of each party is divided into two or more parts under the contract; (ii) the number of parts due from each is the same; and (iii) the performance of each part by one party is agreed upon as the corresponding part (quid pro quo) from the other party. [Restatement (Second) of Contracts $\S 266$ ] Here the facts establish none of the three requirements. Hence, Threedee is not indebted to Drafty on this theory. Based on the above, (A) is correct, and (B), (C), and (D) are incorrect.

\section{Answer to Question 4}

(D) Telco and Rhodes are liable for the full amount as joint tortfeasors. In cases where there are joint tortfeasors and the injury suffered is not divisible, each tortfeasor will be jointly and severally liable for that injury. The rule of joint and several liability applies even where (as in the case described by the facts) each defendant acted entirely independently. Both defendants were negligent and contributed to the injuries suffered by the plaintiff when the pole fell. (A) is incorrect because Telco's prior negligence has no effect on Rhodes's liability. Her conduct was the direct cause of the foreseeable harmful result of the pole falling; the fact that it did not happen immediately is irrelevant. (B) is incorrect because Rhodes's reckless driving was not a superseding intervening force that would cut off Telco's liability for its original negligence. Because of Telco's negligence, it was foreseeable that the pole would fall. The fact that it was caused by another's reckless conduct, whether foreseeable or unforeseeable, does not cut off Telco's liability. $(\mathrm{C})$ is incorrect because there is no basis to divide the plaintiff's injuries as $50 \%$ caused by Telco and $50 \%$ caused by Rhodes.

\section{Answer to Question 5}

(A) Percy will prevail because the employee of the contractor hired by ValuMart left the level in the aisle. The general rule that a principal will not be vicariously liable for the acts of its independent contractor agent is subject to several broad exceptions, including one for duties that are nondelegable because of public policy considerations. One of these duties is the duty of a business to keep its premises safe for customers. Hence, a business would be liable for the negligence of an employee of an independent contractor to the same extent as for the negligence of its own employee. Here, Cora was employed by Contractor, which was hired by ValuMart. Cora breached the duty owed to business invitees such as Percy by leaving the level projecting out into one of the aisles. Percy was injured as a result, so he will prevail in a suit against ValuMart. (B) is incorrect. As part of the duty owed to business invitees, ValuMart employees have a duty to make reasonable inspections of their premises to discover unsafe conditions (such as if a customer had spilled something slippery in an aisle). However, even if they did not have a reasonable time to discover the level, ValuMart is liable because it is responsible for Cora's conduct. (C) is wrong because, as discussed above, ValuMart is liable under these circumstances for the conduct of its independent contractor's employee. (D) is wrong because ValuMart is liable regardless of the knowledge of its employees.

\section{Answer to Question 6}

(B) If the federal legislation does not address the issue of preemption, and a problem is uniquely local, the local government is permitted to enact rules more strict than the federal standards. The Court has made it clear that for preemption, either the federal statute must expressly preempt state measures, or its preemptive force must be clear by either "occupying the field" or posing a conflict that makes compliance with both measures impossible. Since the facts do not indicate that the federal measure expressly preempts state regulation, and since neither of the implied preemption conditions are met, (B) is the correct answer and (C) and (D) are incorrect. (A) misstates the facts.

\section{Answer to Question 7}

(B) Congress has addressed the problem of racial discrimination primarily under the commerce power, but the Thirteenth Amendment does contain an enabling clause that would authorize this type of statute because it is not limited to governmental action. [See Patterson v. McLean Credit Union (1989)] While the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment has been applied to the federal government in the same way that the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment has been applied to states in racial segregation cases, Watson Janitorial is not a government agency and therefore the Fifth Amendment argument would not be very effective, since it is not the government itself that is being accused of discrimination. Thus, (A) and (C) do not offer the best response, since option I. presents a weak case. (D) is incorrect because option IV. misstates the law: there is no general federal police power.

\section{Answer to Question 8}

(B) The letter is admissible as substantive evidence as well as for impeachment purposes. For the purpose of impeaching the credibility of a witness, a party may show that the witness has, on another occasion, made statements that are inconsistent with some material part of his present testimony. This may be done by first cross-examining the witness as to the prior inconsistent statement that he has made. If the witness denies having made the statement or fails to remember it, the making of the statement may be proved by extrinsic evidence. A proper foundation must be laid by giving the witness an opportunity to explain or deny the statement, and it must be relevant to some issue in the case. Here, Wilson has denied on cross-examination that he wrote the letter to Lee. Amp can then impeach Wilson by offering the letter into evidence. Because Wilson has not been released as a witness, he will have an opportunity to explain or deny the statement, and it is relevant to whether any work was done at Short's home. Because prior inconsistent statements are generally hearsay, they often are admissible only for purposes of impeachment. In this case, however, the statement is admissible as substantive evidence because it falls within an exception to the hearsay rule. Under Rule 803(3), a statement of a declarant's then existing state of mind is admissible as a basis for a circumstantial inference that the declarant acted in accordance with his state of mind. [See also Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Hillmon] Wilson's statement that he was going to do electrical work on Short's house is admissible as circumstantial evidence tending to show that he followed through with his plans and did the electrical work, which is what the statement is being offered to establish. In this case, therefore, the letter should be admissible as both substantive and impeachment evidence, making (B) correct and (A) incorrect. (C) is incorrect because the Federal Rules provide that the credibility of a witness may be attacked by any party, including the party calling him. [Fed. R. Evid. 607] (D) is incorrect. The letter is hearsay because it is being offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted-that Wilson was going to do electrical work on Short's house-as a basis for inferring that Wilson did do the work. However, as discussed above, it falls within the "present state of mind" exception to the hearsay rule.

\section{Answer to Question 9}

(A) To prove an attempt, the government must establish that the defendant had a specific intent to commit the crime and committed an act beyond mere preparation for the offense. There can be no attempt, however, if there is no crime on the books to cover either the defendant's behavior or his intended behavior. This is known as the doctrine of legal impossibility. In (A), the defendant could not be found guilty of attempting to purchase Valium without a prescription because it was not illegal to purchase Valium without a prescription. In (B), (C), and (D), the defendant could be held for attempt. In each fact situation, the defendant acted with the specific intent to commit the crime. In (B), the death of the intended victim made it impossible to commit the homicide. In (C), the refusal of the garage owner to be deceived made it impossible to commit false pretenses. In (D), the fact that the property no longer had "stolen" status made it impossible to commit the crime of receiving stolen property. The mistake as to the attendant circumstances in (B) and (D) and the inability to complete the crime in (C) all constitute factual impossibility, which is not a defense to attempt. 

\section{Answer to Question 10}

(B) A regulation will not be upheld if it is overbroad (i.e., if it prohibits substantially more speech than is necessary). If a regulation punishes a substantial amount of protected speech, judged in relation to the regulation's plainly legitimate sweep, the regulation is facially invalid unless a court has limited construction of the regulation so as to remove the threat to constitutionally protected expression. If a criminal law or regulation fails to give persons reasonable notice of what is prohibited, it may violate the Due Process Clause on vagueness grounds. This principle is applied somewhat strictly when First Amendment activity is involved in order to avoid the chilling effect a vague law might have on speech (i.e., if it is unclear what speech is regulated, people might refrain from speech that is permissible for fear that they will be violating the law). The ordinance at issue here is overbroad in banning all street demonstrations of more than 15 people in commercial areas during rush hour. This regulation bans far more speech than is necessary. This regulation is also unduly vague because "rush" hours is apparently not defined in the ordinance. The section of the ordinance referring to certain types of prohibited language is also so vague as to be facially invalid. (A) is incorrect because prior restraints may be imposed on speech in public places if such restraints are granted under narrowly and clearly defined standards. (C) is incorrect because the police have powers to prevent breaches of the peace. (D) is incorrect since the state may interfere with the right of association, where, for example, there is an imminent danger to public health and welfare.

\section{Answer to Question 11}

(B) Lentil may begin eviction proceedings at any time. When a tenant continues in possession after the termination of her right to possession, the landlord has two choices of action: he may treat the hold-over tenant as a trespasser and evict her under an unlawful detainer statute, or he may, in his sole discretion, bind the tenant to a new periodic tenancy, in which case the terms and conditions of the expired tenancy apply to the new tenancy. Here, while Lentil accepted the check sent by Truffle, he informed Truffle that he was not electing to bind her to a new tenancy. Lentil may keep the check because he is entitled to rent for the month that Truffle was a hold-over tenant, but at the end of that month he has the right to evict Truffle because no periodic tenancy was created and Truffle's right to possession has terminated. (A) is incorrect because Lentil did not elect to create a periodic tenancy. Furthermore, had he done so, the tenancy would have been a year-toyear tenancy rather than a month-to-month tenancy because it is a commercial lease for more than one year, rather than a residential lease. (C) is incorrect because, as discussed above, Lentil did not elect to create a periodic tenancy when Truffle held over. (D) is incorrect because no tenancy for years is created when a tenant holds over. If the landlord elects to bind the tenant to a new tenancy, it will be a periodic tenancy, regardless of whether the original tenancy was a tenancy for years.

\section{Answer to Question 12}

(B) Dirk's motion should be denied because his waiver of his Miranda rights was valid. Even though the prosecution must show, by a preponderance of the evidence, that a defendant's waiver of his Miranda rights was knowing, voluntary, and intelligent, the suspect need not have been informed of all subjects of an interrogation to effect a valid waiver. The police were not required to tell Dirk of Vera's condition. (A) is incorrect because no error was involved. (C) is incorrect for the reasons described in the analysis of option (A), i.e., the police need not inform the subject of all aspects of the interrogation for the waiver to be considered valid. (D) is incorrect because due process requires only that confessions be voluntary, i.e., not the product of official compulsion. Withholding information about the potential seriousness of the offense does not violate due process. 

\section{Answer to Question 13}

(B) Showing West the notes is a proper attempt to refresh her recollection. A witness may use any writing or thing for the purpose of refreshing her present recollection. This is known as "present recollection revived." Under most circumstances she may not read from the writing while she actually testifies because the writing is neither authenticated nor in evidence. Here, the writing was shown to her solely to refresh her recollection and is, therefore, proper. (A) is incorrect because it describes "past recollection recorded," which is a hearsay exception [Fed. R. Evid. $803(5)$ ] allowing the writing itself to be introduced into evidence if a proper foundation is laid for its admissibility. Here there is no attempt to enter the notes into evidence. (C) is incorrect because what the attorney is asking to do does not constitute a traditional "leading question," which generally calls for a "yes" or "no" answer or is framed to suggest the desired answer. Furthermore, the ordinary rules on leading questions may be waived when the witness needs help to respond because of loss of memory. (D) is incorrect because aiding a witness's present recollection has nothing to do with bolstering the witness's credibility (which generally may not be done until the witness has been impeached).

\section{Answer to Question 14}

(C) I. is correct. Buyer has a contract for 100 wheelbarrows; she is not required to accept anything less. II. is also correct. Buyer can accept if she wants less than the full order and hold Seller responsible for damages. III. is also correct. Under the U.C.C., if a valid contract existed, Buyer can accept the entire shipment and sue Seller for damages. If there had been no prior contract and Seller had attempted to accept by shipment, shipment of the "accommodation" units would be a counteroffer and if Buyer accepted them, she could not sue for damages. However, here there was a prior written contract. Thus, since all the statements are correct, (C) is the correct pick, and (A), (B), and (D) are wrong.

\section{Answer to Question 15}

(A) Hardsell can collect his lost profits, i.e., the difference between the contract price $(\$ 9,000)$ and what Hardsell paid to purchase the car from the manufacturer. In a contract for the sale of goods, a seller can collect his lost profits when the buyer breaches if the seller cannot be made whole by a subsequent sale of the item contracted for. This occurs where the seller has an unlimited supply of the goods and demand is limited (e.g., a car dealership), because in such a situation, the seller would have been able to sell to the subsequent purchaser anyway. This is known as a lost volume situation, and in such a situation, the U.C.C. allows the seller to sue for his lost profits. Generally, lost profit is measured by the difference between the cost of goods and the contract price, less the seller's saved expenses. (B) is incorrect because it uses the wrong measure for lost profits. The cost of a similar car in the local wholesale market is irrelevant since Hardsell did not purchase the car on the wholesale market, but rather purchased the car from the manufacturer. Hardsell's actual price will be used to determine his lost profit. (C) is incorrect because although Hardsell resold the car, the resale has not made him whole since he could have sold a car to Karbuff anyway. Thus, the resale does not put Hardsell in as good a position as he would have been had Shift performed (the goal of contract remedies). Thus, Hardsell will be allowed to recover his lost profits, as explained above. (D) is incorrect because contracts of adhesion are not unconscionable per se, and there is nothing in the facts to indicate a degree of unconscionability that would render the contract voidable at buyer's option.

\section{Answer to Question 16}

(D) The trial court should rule Wirth's testimony inadmissible because its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger that it will confuse the issues and waste time. Where a witness makes a statement not directly relevant to the issues in the case, the rule against impeachment (other than by cross-examination) on a collateral matter applies to bar the opponent from proving the statement untrue either by extrinsic contradictory facts or by a prior inconsistent statement. The purpose of the rule is to avoid the possibility of unfair surprise, confusion of issues, and undue consumption of time. An issue is considered collateral if it would not be admissible other than to contradict the testimony. Evidence that a person has previously filed similar claims is generally inadmissible to show the invalidity of the present claim. At best, this evidence shows the plaintiff's tendency toward litigation. Unless there is evidence that the previous claim was false, the probative value of such evidence is deemed outweighed by the risk of confusion of the issues. Since the prior suit would not be the subject of proof independent of impeachment, it is a collateral matter, and extrinsic evidence, such as Wirth's testimony, is inadmissible. (A) is wrong because the testimony is not proper impeachment and is inadmissible. Furthermore, this choice states the foundational requirement for introducing a prior inconsistent statement. This is not a prior inconsistent statement and, if the testimony were admissible, the opportunity to explain or deny would not be required. (B) is wrong because the failure to object merely meant that Pike's answer to the question was admitted into evidence; it does not change the fact that the matter is collateral. Since it is a collateral matter, extrinsic evidence will not be permitted. (C) is wrong for two reasons. First, the suit is a fact that exists independently of the court record, and thus, the best evidence rule would not apply. Furthermore, as stated above, extrinsic evidence of any kind is not admissible on a collateral matter; Digger is limited to cross-examination for impeachment in these circumstances.

\section{Answer to Question 17}

(D) Jordan is not an accomplice to criminal homicide because intent is required to invoke accomplice liability. To be convicted as an accomplice, a person must have given aid, counsel, or encouragement with the intent that an offense be committed or, in some cases, with knowledge that he was contributing to the commission of a crime. Jordan supplied the apparently benign antibiotic to prevent the possible commission of a crime of homicide rather than to aid or abet the commission of such crime by Hammond. Jordan lacked intent to commit any of the homicide crimes. (A) is incorrect because murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought and Jordan lacked any of the states of mind required to establish malice. (B) is incorrect because voluntary manslaughter involves a killing after adequate provocation, and "unlawful act" involuntary manslaughter requires a killing in the course of a felony or a malum in se misdemeanor. None of these situations is present here. (C) is incorrect because criminal negligence requires negligence of a greater degree than the "reasonable person" standard for torts. Jordan did not reach this degree of negligence by supplying Hammond with the usually harmless antibiotic.

\section{Answer to Question 18}

(A) Hammond is guilty of murder only. Murder requires a killing of a human being with malice aforethought. Hammond planned to kill his wife and proceeded to do so. It is irrelevant that he killed her by injecting her with a drug that is normally harmless rather than with the poison he thought he was injecting. Ignorance or mistake as to a matter of fact will affect criminal guilt only if the defendant did not have the state of mind required for the crime. (B) is incorrect because no legal conspiracy existed. The common law elements of conspiracy are: (i) an agreement between two or more persons, (ii) an intent to enter into an agreement, and (iii) an intent to achieve the objective of the agreement. By this definition, Jordan was not a co-conspirator, and therefore Hammond is not guilty of common law conspiracy because he did not have an agreement with another guilty party. (C) is incorrect because, for reasons given above, Hammond's mistake of fact regarding the substance he was injecting into his wife does not reduce murder to attempted murder. (D) is incorrect for reasons given in the analysis of options (B) and (C).

\section{Answer to Question 19}

(D) The decisive question in this case involves establishing causation in a strict products liability action. A cause of action based on strict liability for products requires: (i) strict duty owed by a commercial supplier; (ii) breach of that duty; (iii) actual and proximate cause; and (iv) damages for a prima facie case. Option (D) goes to the question of actual causation (i.e., whether Abco was the cause-in-fact of Crane's injuries), which is an essential element in strict liability cases. The issue here is whether the court will apply an "enterprise liability" theory (which has been done in negligence cases). In these cases, courts use an alternative causes approach, which shifts the burden of proof to each of the several defendants to establish that its negligence was not the actual cause of plaintiff's injury. (A) is incorrect because res ipsa loquitur, which allows the trier of fact to infer a breach of duty on the part of the defendant, is only applicable in negligence cases. (B) is incorrect because in strict liability cases the supplier can be held liable even if it was unaware of the harm the product could cause. (C) is incorrect because FDA approval would not affect Abco's liability in a strict liability action.

\section{Answer to Question 20}

(B) Shirts is liable for the total amount on privity of contract grounds, and Shoes is liable for \$ 12,000$ on privity of estate grounds. When a leasehold interest is assigned, the assignor and the landlord are no longer in privity of estate; the assignee is now in privity of estate with the landlord. Hence, each is liable to the other on all covenants in the lease that "run with the land." Here, the agreement to pay a maintenance fee for upkeep of the common areas of the mall is a covenant that runs with the land because it burdens the tenant and benefits the landlord with respect to their interests in the property (i.e., it "touches and concerns" the land). Shoes is therefore liable for the maintenance fees for the 12-month term of its tenancy. However, since Shoes was not in privity of estate prior to the assignment, it is not liable for the \$ 3,000$ in maintenance fees that Shirts owed; thus, (A) is incorrect. (C) and (D) are incorrect because Shirts continues to be liable for the maintenance fees after the assignment. While the original tenant is no longer in privity of estate with the landlord after assignment, the tenant can still be held liable on its original contractual obligation in the lease, i.e., on privity of contract. This allows the landlord to sue the original tenant where the assignee has disappeared, is judgment-proof, etc. Here, Shirts is liable for the period Shoes occupied the property as well as the period the property was abandoned. Thus, Lightpost has the choice of suing either Shirts (under privity of contract) or Shoes (under privity of estate) for the \$ 12,000$ in maintenance fees, as provided in choice (B).

\section{Answer to Question 21}

(D) Both Lakeview and Lightpost are liable to Shoes. A landlord's assignment of the rents and reversion interest, such as through a sale of the property, is subject to the same rules as a tenant's assignment of the leasehold interest. The assignee is liable to the tenants for performance of all covenants made by the original landlord in the lease, provided that those covenants touch and concern the land. The burdens of those covenants run with the landlord's estate and become the burdens of the new landlord. The original landlord also remains liable (on privity of contract grounds) on all covenants that he made in the lease. Here, the duty to maintain the parking lot touches and concerns the land because it benefits the tenant and burdens the landlord with respect to their interests in the property. Thus, regardless of who hired the contractor, Lakeview had a duty to ensure that the contractor completed the work, and is liable to Shoes for the costs Shoes

incurred to have the work completed. (B) is incorrect because the fact that Lakeview did not contractually assume Lightpost's obligations does not alter its liability to Shoes under privity of estate principles. Had Lakeview contractually assumed the obligations, Shoes could have also proceeded against Lakeview on a contractual basis as a third-party beneficiary of the assumption agreement. Even without the assumption, Lakeview is liable to Shoes on privity of estate grounds. (C) is wrong because the fact that privity of estate between Lightpost and Shoes was severed by the sale does not alter Lightpost's privity of contract obligations. Because Lightpost made a covenant in the lease to maintain the parking lot, he is contractually obligated to fulfill that covenant regardless of the sale of the property to Lakeview. (A) is incorrect because the failure of Shoes to pay rent does not excuse the prior breach of the covenant to maintain the parking lot. As a general rule, covenants in a lease are independent of each other. Thus, if one party breaches a covenant, the other party can recover damages, but must still perform his promises under the lease. Absent application of constructive eviction, an implied warranty of habitability, or some other statutory provision, Shoes may not have had authority to withhold rent despite the breach of the maintenance covenant, and Lakeview may now have the option to terminate the lease as a result. Even if that were the case, however, both landlords would remain liable to Shoes for the damages incurred from the breach of the maintenance agreement while the lease was in force.

\title{
Answer to Question 22
}

(A) The state may impose a tax on the fiberoptic line. A state tax levied directly against the property or operation of the federal government without the consent of Congress is invalid. However, nondiscriminatory, indirect taxes on the federal government or its property are permissible if they do not unreasonably burden the federal government. Because this tax is not levied directly against the government but rather against the provider of a service that the government is obtaining, and is levied on all communications lines in the state, the tax is valid. The fact that the economic burden of the tax will ultimately be borne by the government under the "cost plus" contract does not invalidate the tax. (B) is wrong because the Tenth Amendment provides that powers not delegated to the United States, nor prohibited to the states, are reserved to the states. This limits Congress's power to regulate the states but does not serve as an independent grant of power to the states. Both the federal government and the state government have the power to tax, but the federal law is supreme in this area. (C) is incorrect because not every state tax that burdens the federal government is invalid. A nondiscriminatory tax on a service provided to the federal government by a private entity does not appear to be an unreasonable burden on the operation of the federal government. (D) is wrong because the fact that interstate commerce is involved does not invalidate the tax. Power over commerce is concurrent, belonging to both the states and the federal government. While federal law is supreme in the area of interstate commerce, state legislation that affects interstate commerce is not automatically invalidated.

\section{Answer to Question 23}

(A) The document should be admitted. Related to the exception to the hearsay rule for public records and other official writings, Federal Rule of Evidence 803(10) provides that evidence in the form of a certification or testimony from the custodian of public records that she has diligently searched and failed to find a record is admissible to prove that a matter was not recorded, or, inferentially, that a matter did not occur. Here, David's status as a licensed psychotherapist would normally be revealed in the records of the department. The document here at issue is admissible, under the foregoing hearsay exception, as a means of proving that David is in fact not licensed. (B) is incorrect because this hearsay exception does not require unavailability of the declarant. (C) is incorrect because, as explained above, the statement of absence from public record forms an exception to the hearsay rule. (D) is incorrect because a public document that has been signed and certified is self-authenticating under Rule 902 ; hence, no testimonial sponsorship for the document is required.

\section{Answer to Question 24}

(C) Page will not recover because she was an unforeseeable plaintiff to whom Dwyer owed no duty. A duty of care is owed only to foreseeable plaintiffs. A trespasser is not a foreseeable plaintiff unless the landowner has discovered her presence or should reasonably know of trespassers who constantly cross over a section of his land. Neither of these situations is indicated by the facts. Thus, Page was an undiscovered trespasser to whom no duty is owed. Dwyer was under no obligation to inspect his premises to determine if trespassers were entering his cabin. (A) is incorrect. Because Dwyer owed no duty to Page, it is irrelevant whether Dwyer knew that the stove was defective. (B) is incorrect for the same reason. Dwyer had no duty to inspect the appliances in his cabin to make it safe for undiscovered trespassers. (D) is incorrect because it mitigates Page's liability for trespass but has no effect on Dwyer's duty to Page.

\section{Answer to Question 25}

(C) Masters's suit will be unsuccessful because he has no right to a hearing here since he has no life, liberty, or property interest at stake. The Due Process Clause requires a hearing only when a life, liberty, or property interest is at stake. Masters clearly is not at risk of losing his life or liberty, and the Supreme Court has made clear that neither is a property interest involved here. To have a property interest in continued government employment, there must be a statute, regulation, contract right, or clear policy that the employee can be dismissed only for cause. Absent such a right to employment, the employee is an at-will employee and may be terminated without a hearing. Here, there was no law, contract, or policy giving Masters a right to a job absent cause for firing him. Therefore, no hearing was required. (A) is incorrect because bills of attainder involve criminal or otherwise punitive measures inflicted without judicial trial. Nothing here indicates that Masters is being punished; rather he is not being retained as an employee. (B) is incorrect because while the Equal Protection Clause prohibits government from discriminating between similarly situated persons unreasonably, where, as here, no fundamental right or suspect or quasi-suspect right is involved, the discriminatory government action will be upheld as long as it is rational. The random hearing policy here could be rational (e.g., it might provide a sufficient sample to ensure that probationary employees are not being terminated for improper reasons); thus, it will be upheld. (D) is incorrect because it is too broad. Not every aspect of state government employment is protected by the Tenth Amendment. [See, e.g., Garcia v. San Antonio Metropolitan Transit Authority (1985)]

\section{Answer to Question 26}

(A) Marvin will win because the contract is fully enforceable under the U.C.C. Tubing is a good, and so Article 2 of the U.C.C. applies. The contract is for the sale of goods over \$ 500$ (10,000 linear feet at \$ 2 /$ foot); so ordinarily section $2-201$ would require a writing. However, section 2-201(3) provides that a writing is not required where the contract is for "specially manufactured" goods not suitable for resale in the ordinary course of the seller's business and the seller has made a substantial beginning of their manufacture or commitments for their procurement. Because the tubing is a custom order of unique specifications and Marvin has begun manufacture, this exception to the U.C.C. Statute of Frauds applies. (B) is incorrect because the contract is fully enforceable. While Marvin is required to mitigate damages, it is entitled to the full range of contract remedies to put it in the position it would have been in had Golde not breached (i.e., benefit of the bargain damages on the entire contract). (C) is incorrect because while it is true that a contract for the sale of goods over \$ 500$ must ordinarily be evidenced by a signed writing, the "specially manufactured goods" exception (see above) applies here. (D) is incorrect because the parol evidence rule bars admissibility of evidence that varies an integrated writing; here, there is no writing at all.

\section{Answer to Question 27}

(D) The court is not likely to agree to suppress the confession for two reasons: Drake probably has no standing to raise a violation of Trent's Fourth Amendment rights, and even if he did, the confession would not be excluded because it was not the fruit of the Fourth Amendment violation. Under the Fourth Amendment, the police generally can arrest, without a warrant, anyone that they have reasonable grounds to believe has committed a felony. There are two exceptions, however, when a warrant is required: Absent exigent circumstances, the Fourth Amendment requires the police to have a warrant to arrest a person in his own home or to search the premises of a third person for an arrestee. Here, the police had probable cause to arrest Drake and the arrest did not occur in Drake's home. Although the arrest did take place in Trent's home and the police did not obtain a warrant to search Trent's home, this will not help Drake because the warrant requirement for a third person's premises is intended to protect the third person's expectation of privacy; while the search may have violated Trent's Fourth Amendment rights, Trent is not being charged with an offense. The Supreme Court has held that a person can have evidence excluded on Fourth Amendment grounds only if that person's Fourth Amendment rights were violated; a person has no standing to raise a violation of another's Fourth Amendment rights. A person has standing to object to the search of a place only if the person has an ownership or possessory interest in the place searched or is an overnight guest in the place searched. Here, the police entered Trent's home, and the facts indicate that Drake was there only to obtain a forged license. Thus, Drake probably has no standing to raise the Fourth Amendment violation. Furthermore, even if he had standing, his confession could still be used against him. While the exclusionary rule generally provides that evidence obtained or derived from exploitation of illegally obtained evidence must be excluded, the Supreme Court has held that where the police have probable cause to arrest a defendant and improperly arrest him in his home without a warrant, a confession made by the defendant at the police station is admissible because it is not the fruit of the unlawful arrest (since the police could have lawfully arrested the defendant the moment he stepped outside of the house). [New York v. Harris (1990)] Here, even if the arrest were unlawful because of the absence of a warrant, the police had probable cause to arrest Drake and so could have waited until he left Trent's house. Hence, the confession at the police station was not a fruit of the unlawful arrest and should not be suppressed. (A) is wrong because, as discussed above, it is unlikely that Drake can establish that the warrantless entry by itself was a violation of his own reasonable expectation of privacy. (B) is incorrect because the absence of an arrest warrant, even if it would have made the arrest unlawful under the circumstances, would not require suppressing the confession. As discussed above, the confession was not the fruit of the unlawful arrest because the police had probable cause to arrest Drake as soon as he left the house. (C) is wrong because it is irrelevant. The fact that a reliable informant gave them Drake's location, even assuming that it would have helped establish probable cause for searching there, does not excuse the requirement that a magistrate make an independent evaluation of probable cause before issuing a warrant.

\section{Answer to Question 28}

(D) Nora will be able to enforce the restrictive covenant as an equitable servitude. Zoning regulations and restrictive covenants in private deeds are completely separate concepts. Both must be complied with, and neither provides any excuse for violating the other. Thus, a variance from the government regulation does not prevent enforcement of the private covenant. The court will enforce the covenant as an equitable servitude because Nora is seeking an injunction. An equitable servitude is a covenant that, regardless of whether it runs with the land at law, equity will enforce against the assignees of the burdened land who have notice of the covenant. Here, all of the deeds contained the restrictive covenant. There is no indication that Dampier did not have notice of the restriction, and it is both possible and reasonable for him to comply with the restriction at this stage. Privity of estate is not required because the majority of courts enforce the servitude as an equitable interest in the land itself. Hence, Nora will obtain the injunction. (A) is incorrect because, as noted above, zoning regulations and covenants in deeds are completely separate; thus, the zoning regulation would not take precedence over the covenant. The only time a zoning regulation might prevent enforcement of such a covenant is where enforcement would result in a zoning violation (e.g., covenant calls for single family residential housing only, while the land is zoned strictly commercial). (B) is an incorrect statement of law. Equity will impose a hardship, although it will try to balance the hardships between the parties. Here, the hardship on Dampier is not unreasonable because it is possible for him to build a house that complies with the setback restriction and he has not yet dug the foundation for the house he was planning. (C) is incorrect because nothing in the facts indicates that Dampier will be unjustly enriched by building his home in violation of the covenant; e.g., there is no indication that his home or property will be worth more simply because it has a 30 -foot setback rather than a 50 -foot setback.

\section{Answer to Question 29}

(A) Howser will win because Awl's notice constituted an anticipatory repudiation, which can be treated as an immediate and total breach of contract. If a contract is executory on both sides and one party unequivocally notifies the other party that he will not perform when his duty is due, the nonrepudiating party has the option of treating the repudiation as an immediate and total breach and suing for damages. Although the repudiator can retract the repudiation, this must be done before the nonrepudiating party relies on the repudiation. Here, the contract was wholly executory (since neither party had performed) when Awl said that he would not perform at the agreed price. Since Awl's statement was unequivocal, it constitutes an anticipatory repudiation. Thus, Howser was free to find someone to substitute for Awl. Since Howser did find a substitute, he relied on the repudiation and so Awl's attempted revocation was invalid. (B) is incorrect because the difference in price between Awl's demand and Gutter's price is irrelevant. Under the common law, Awl had a contractual duty to perform at the price he agreed to, and his statement that he would not do so constituted an anticipatory repudiation regardless of the price Awl was attempting to obtain. (C) is incorrect because Howser had no duty to inform Awl of the contract with Gutter. The repudiating party is the wrongful party in an anticipatory repudiation situation, and so the law does not impose a duty of notification on the nonrepudiator. If the repudiator suffers harm by his repudiation, it is his own fault. (D) is incorrect because, as stated above, a repudiator can revoke the repudiation only if the nonrepudiating party has not relied on the repudiation. Here, Howser had relied (by hiring Gutter). Thus, it is too late for Awl to revoke the repudiation.

\section{Answer to Question 30}

(D) Howser can recover \$ 15,000$, the difference between Awl's contract price and the contract price of the substitute performance. In construction contract cases where the builder breaches, the proper measure of damages is the difference between the cost of obtaining substitute performance (i.e., the cost of completion) and the contract price. Here, while Howser actually paid \$ 25,000$ more than Awl's contract price to have the house built, he was obligated to pay only \$ 15,000$ more since Gutter had a legal duty to build the house for his contract price and no more. Howser will not be able to recover the \$ 10,000$ difference because he has a duty to mitigate damages, and paying more than he was actually obligated to pay breaches the duty. (A) and (B) are incorrect because they do not apply the proper measure of damages formula. (C) is incorrect because the "cost of completion" does not include the additional \$ 10,000$ Howser gave Gutter to save Gutter from having performed the job at a loss. As explained above, Howser was not required to pay Gutter the \$ 10,000$ to complete the house and Howser's paying the extra amount breaches his duty to mitigate damages. Thus, Howser cannot recover the extra \$ 10,000$.

\section{Answer to Question 31}

(C) Smith owns Whiteacre because a deed to a nonexistent person is void and conveys no title. Because Benjamin was dead when the deed was delivered, the deed passed nothing and was a nullity. Note that Smith will be required to return the \$ 75,000$ to Benjamin's estate to avoid unjust enrichment. (A) is wrong because title never passed from Smith. Furthermore, even if it had, it would not have passed even bare legal title to Lenora since she was not a grantee and Smith did not intend to pass title to her. (B) is wrong because Benjamin was killed before the contract was formed. Had he been alive at that time, the contract would have been valid and executory on his death. If a buyer dies after the contract for sale was entered into but before it has been completed, his heirs or devisees can demand a conveyance of the land at the closing. Since Benjamin was dead when the contract was entered into, however, Lenora's agency was no longer valid and there was no contract. (D) is wrong because the term "risk of loss" refers to risk of the property's being destroyed after the contract is signed but before closing. Here, the property was not destroyed. Moreover, there was no valid contract since Benjamin died before the contract was signed. Therefore, the risk of loss is irrelevant.

\section{Answer to Question 32}

(B) The testimony was properly admitted under the excited utterance exception to the hearsay rule. Statements made under the stress of some exciting event and relating to that event are admissible as an exception to the hearsay rule. (A) is incorrect because the Federal Rules require the maker of a dying declaration to be unavailable for the declaration to be admissible. (C) is incorrect; even though the statement bolsters the credibility of Patricia, it still qualifies as an exception to the hearsay rule and is admissible substantive evidence. (D) is incorrect because it is up to the broad discretion of the trial judge under Federal Rule 403 whether to exclude relevant evidence based on needless presentation of cumulative evidence. There is nothing to indicate that admission of the testimony constituted an abuse of discretion.

\section{Answer to Question 33}

(A) The party in choice (A) is the only one which clearly meets the "injury in fact" requirement for standing. The plaintiff should "have such a personal stake in the outcome of the controversy as to ensure the concrete adversariness that sharpens the presentation of issues." The business will be clearly injured if its customer is required to drastically reduce purchases to comply with the State Green statute. In addition, the fact that the proposed plaintiff is not a citizen of State Green indicates the interstate impact of the State Green legislation. (B) is incorrect, because the corporation's sales are not large enough to fall within the ambit of the State Green statute, so no injury in fact has been suffered. (C) is incorrect because the general rule is that a plaintiff must have standing in his own right, he cannot assert the rights of another to obtain standing, and nothing here indicates that the governor has a concrete stake here. (D) is incorrect because the potential plaintiff's claim is far too tenuous. While the corporation whose bonds the potential plaintiff owns will be subject to the law, it is not likely that the potential plaintiff will suffer any injury since he has no interest in the corporation's profitability (a bondholder does not share in a corporation's profits, but is only entitled to repayment, and since the owner's bonds here are secured, his investment is protected no matter what happens to the corporation). 

\section{Answer to Question 34}

(D) Bert will win because the officer was not privileged to arrest Bert. A police officer is privileged to make an arrest without a warrant for a felony or for a breach of the peace committed in her presence, but not for a misdemeanor not involving a breach of the peace. If the arrest is privileged, the officer may use only that degree of force necessary to effect the arrest, but never deadly force. Here, Bert's offense of jaywalking was a misdemeanor that did not involve a breach of the peace, so the officer did not have a privilege of arrest and committed a battery by grabbing Bert. (A) is incorrect because the fact that Bert struck the officer after she came at him with a baton would not affect her liability for the initial battery. (B) is incorrect because an ordinary misdemeanor cannot be the basis of an arrest even if it is committed in the presence of the officer; it must also constitute a breach of the peace. (C) is incorrect because it is irrelevant whether Bert will be found guilty of jaywalking - the officer was not privileged to arrest Bert for it.

\section{Answer to Question 35}

(B) If the officer was unaware that Ruth was watching, the officer could not have the requisite intent to inflict emotional distress. For intentional infliction of emotional distress based on conduct directed at a third person, recovery is ordinarily limited to plaintiffs who are not only present at the time, but are known by the defendant to be present, so that the mental distress is likely to have been anticipated by the defendant. (A) is not as good an answer, because even if the officer knew the precise relationship between Ruth and Bert, the essential fact of the officer's knowledge of Ruth's presence is not established. (C) and (D) state elements of the tort, but are meaningless without the necessary intent towards Ruth.

\section{Answer to Question 36}

(C) The court should instruct the jury that Dunken is not liable for first degree murder if he did not form the intent to commit the crime of burglary, because a defense to the underlying felony precludes a conviction for felony murder. Voluntary intoxication is a defense to specific intent crimes, such as burglary, if it prevents the defendant from formulating the requisite intent. In the absence of Dunken's liability for burglary, he cannot be convicted of first degree murder based on the facts presented here. (A) is incorrect because voluntary intoxication may be a defense to first degree murder under the circumstances here. $(B)$ is an incorrect statement of law; the intoxication must negate a specific intent for the underlying felony for it to serve as a defense. (D) is incorrect; while premeditated murder is a specific intent crime for which voluntary intoxication may be a defense, nothing in the facts suggests that the charge is based on premeditation. Here, the first degree murder charge is based on commission of a burglary.

\section{Answer to Question 37}

(B) The most serious crime for which Dunken can be convicted is second degree murder, because voluntary intoxication is not a defense to that crime. Under the statute, second degree murder encompasses all murders committed with "malice aforethought." Voluntary intoxication is not a defense to crimes requiring malice, including murder based on malice aforethought. Malice aforethought includes acting with reckless indifference to an unjustifiably high risk to human life (i.e., an abandoned and malignant heart), and the jury could find that his reckless driving while intoxicated satisfies that standard. (A) is wrong because, regardless of Dunken's intoxication, there is no evidence that Dunken premeditated the victim's killing or was committing one of the enumerated felonies at the time of the victim's death. (C) and (D) are wrong because, while the jury could find Dunken guilty of only involuntary manslaughter based on criminal negligence or unlawful conduct, it could instead find that he was acting with reckless indifference to human life, which would result in a conviction for the more serious offense of second degree murder.

\section{Answer to Question 38}

(B) The property power of Article IV, Section 3 of the federal Constitution is directly on point. The Property Clause contains no express limit on Congress's power to dispose of property owned by the United States. Such property includes all species, such as leasehold interests and electrical energy as well as ordinary realty and personalty. Disposal may include direct competition with private enterprise (such as TVA and the High Grasslands hypothetical) and has never been invalidated on that ground. (A) is incorrect because the General Welfare Clause allows Congress to spend for the general welfare, and here Congress is not spending, but disposing of property. (C) is not as good an answer as (B) because it is not direct. The Commerce Clause gives Congress the power to regulate interstate commerce, which encompasses any activity that either in itself or in combination with other activities has a substantial economic effect on, or effect on movement in, interstate commerce. When this power is combined with the Necessary and Proper Clause, it might allow Congress to regulate disposition of federal lands in a specified manner, but the property power is much more direct. (D) is incorrect because the Supremacy Clause merely states that federal law takes precedence over conflicting state law, but no state law is involved here. A private company is suing because the federal government is undercutting the company's price.

\section{Answer to Question 39}

(A) The annual is admissible as an adoptive admission of the defendants. Admissions of party opponents are nonhearsay under the Federal Rules $(801(\mathrm{~d})(2))$ and an exception to the hearsay rule under the common law. Furthermore, a party may expressly adopt someone else's statement as his own, thus giving rise to an "adoptive" admission. The manufacturers have done this by referring Peck to the figures in Insulation Manufacturer's Annual Journal as accurate in their response to the interrogatory. The defendant is estopped, at trial, from denying their admissibility. (B) is incorrect because the Journal does not clearly contain entries made in the ordinary course of business. (C) is incorrect because admissions of party opponents are nonhearsay under the Federal Rules. (D) is incorrect because party admissions waive the authentication requirement.

\section{Answer to Question 40}

(C) The agreement between the parties is a type of requirements contract that obligates GM to buy from FGF all of the red cheese that it will sell and obligates FGF to supply GM's needs up to FGF's entire output. GM does not have to buy any FGF red cheese if it acts in good faith. Requirements contracts (a promise by the buyer to buy all of his requirements from the seller, who promises to sell that amount to the buyer) and output contracts (a promise by the seller to sell all of his output to the buyer, who agrees to buy that amount from the seller) are enforceable under section 2-306 of the Uniform Commercial Code. Consideration exists on both sides in these contracts. In a requirements contract, the buyer's consideration is the good faith operation of his business and the promise that he will only buy from the seller; the seller's consideration is the promise to sell at an agreed-upon per unit price whatever the buyer requires. In an output contract, the seller's consideration is the good faith operation of business and the promise to sell the goods only to the buyer, and the buyer's consideration is the promise to buy at an agreed-upon unit price whatever the seller produces. The agreement here is essentially a requirements contract that puts an upper limit on what GM can require-the total output of FGF-and also requires FGF to sell its red cheese only to GM. It is not an output contract because GM is not required to buy all of FGF's output even though it has retained the right to do so. Under the U.C.C., the buyer in a requirements contract is required to conduct his business in good faith and according to commercial standards of fair dealing in the trade so that his requirements will approximate a reasonably foreseeable figure. However, good faith variations from prior requirements are permitted even when the variation may be such as to result in discontinuance. Thus, a shutdown by a requirements buyer for lack of orders may be permissible if the buyer is acting in good faith. [U.C.C. \$2-306, comment 2] In this case, then, choice (C) best states the obligations of the parties: GM is not obligated to buy any red cheese from FGF as long as it acts in good faith, but any red cheese it sells must come from FGF.

\section{Answer to Question 41}

(D) The court should determine that title to Greenacre is one-half in the heirs of Susan, one-quarter in the heirs of Henry, and one-quarter in the heirs of Audrey. Henry and Audrey held the one-half interest in Greenacre as joint tenants with right of survivorship. Thus, had one of them survived, he or she would own the entire one-half interest. The operation of the simultaneous death statute in the jurisdiction, which disposes of property as if each survived, results in their property being distributed as though they were tenants in common; i.e., one-half of their interest passes through Henry's estate as though he survived and one-half of their interest passes through Audrey's estate as though she survived. Susan always held her one-half interest as a tenant in common, so her one-half interest clearly passes to her heirs without any need to resort to the simultaneous death statute. (A) is wrong because Constance effectively conveyed her entire interest in Greenacre to Audrey, Henry, and Susan, and Constance is not the sole heir of the decedents. No consideration is required for a valid conveyance, and both deeds were properly delivered. Acceptance is presumed. (B) is wrong because it ignores Susan's interest. Henry and Audrey never owned the whole of Greenacre; therefore, they cannot pass the whole of Greenacre to their respective heirs. (C) is wrong because it implies that the one-half interest was not effectively conveyed to Susan. The delivery of the deed to Susan's parent during the time that she was a minor is effective delivery. The fact that the deed was not recorded has no effect on its effectiveness.

\section{Answer to Question 42}

(B) The court should find the tax constitutional because it is nondiscriminatory. Nondiscriminatory, indirect taxes on the federal government or its property are permissible if they do not unreasonably burden the federal government. The tax here is a nondiscriminatory "doing business" tax directed at the gross receipts of all business conducted within the state, and there is no indication that the tax unreasonably burdens the transaction of business by the federal government. Hence, the fact that the corporation was acting as a federal contractor will not immunize it from liability for the tax. (A) is incorrect because it is too broad. A state's power over purely intrastate commercial transactions is subject to the Due Process Clause and, where the federal government is involved such as here, the Supremacy Clause. However, the tax here does not violate the Supremacy Clause, as (C) states, because it is not targeted at, nor does it unreasonably burden, the federal government. (D) is incorrect because, even if interstate commerce is involved here, the three factors evaluated by a court in determining whether an undue burden exists (substantial nexus, fair apportionment, and fair relationship) do not appear to be lacking in this case.

\section{Answer to Question 43}

(A) The subpoena should be upheld because the information about hours billed is not within the privilege. There is no privilege regarding a communication that is relevant to an issue of breach of duty by the lawyer to his client or by the client to her lawyer. Thus, the billing data does not fall within the ambit of the privilege. (B) is incorrect because the information here is not covered by the privilege. Furthermore, if the privilege were applicable, Able would be able to invoke the privilege on behalf of his clients. The lawyer's authority to do this is presumed in the absence of any evidence to the contrary. (C) is a correct statement of law, but the work product rule does not apply to these facts. Documents prepared by the lawyer for his own use in prosecuting his client's case are protected by this rule. Time records are not prepared for litigation purposes; they are not related to the substance of the client's case. (D) is incorrect because the other clients are protected by the blacking out of confidential information. Moreover, since the time records are not communications to or from the client and the identity of clients is often not considered to be within the privilege, the billing records of other clients may not be privileged and their consent may not have been necessary even without the deletions.

\section{Answer to Question 44}

(D) The grandchildren take nothing because the purported conveyance to them violates the Rule Against Perpetuities. Under the Rule Against Perpetuities, an interest in property is not valid unless it will vest, if at all, not later than 21 years after a life in being at the creation of the interest. The validity of interests under the Rule is determined at the time the interests are created, taking into account the facts then existing. The "lives in being plus 21 years" period begins to run, and the measuring lives used to show the validity of an interest must be in existence, at that time. The problem in this case is that there is an age contingency beyond age 21 in an open class. The perpetuities period begins to run on the date Torgeson conveyed Fruitacre to Fran. After that date, Diana could have additional children, shortly after which the lives in being (she, Fran, Hubert, Dubert, and Luberta) might all die. The additional children's interest would vest when they reach age 25 , which is more than 21 years after lives in being. (A) is wrong because the interest violates the Rule Against Perpetuities. Except for the Rule, the grandchildren's interest would be classified as contingent remainder. It is contingent because of the condition precedent of their reaching a certain age before taking an interest. (B) is wrong because, even if the Rule Against Perpetuities had not been violated, the grandchildren's interest would not have been vested because their taking was subject to a condition precedent. (C) is wrong because, even if the Rule Against Perpetuities had not been violated, the grandchildren's interest would be a remainder rather than an executory interest. Their interest follows a life estate and as a rule of thumb, remainders always follow life estates. An executory interest is an interest that divests the interest of another, and under these facts, Fran would not have been divested of her interest; she was entitled to retain the property for the remainder of her life.

\section{Answer to Question 45}

(D) The purported contingent remainder to the Sisters of Charity violates the Rule Against Perpetuities and consequently they take nothing. As noted in the above answer, the grandchildren are not certain to reach age 25 (or to die before reaching 25 ) within 21 years after any life in being. Thus, the interest to the grandchildren violates the Rule Against Perpetuities and, hence, any interest being conveyed subsequent in time, such as that to the Sisters of Charity, will automatically violate the Rule Against Perpetuities. Like any other gift, a gift for charitable purposes is void for remoteness if it is contingent upon the happening of an event that may not occur within the perpetuities period. The only exception to this rule is that if there is a gift to a charity, followed by a gift over to another charity upon a possibly remote event, the gift over is valid. Remember, this is a charity-to-charity exception; the Rule Against Perpetuities still applies to dispositions over from an individual to a charity on a remote condition. In this case, there is a disposition over from an individual to a charity on a remote condition in violation of the Rule. (A) is wrong because the interest is void under the Rule Against Perpetuities. If the Rule did not apply, the Sisters of Charity would have a contingent remainder, and (A) would be correct. The grandchildren would have a contingent remainder and the Sisters' interest is contingent on none of the grandchildren attaining age 25 . (B) is incorrect because a vested remainder subject to total divestment arises when: (i) the remainderman is in existence and ascertained, (ii) his interest is not subject to any condition precedent, but (iii) his right to possession and enjoyment is subject to being defeated by the happening of some condition subsequent. The remainder here at all times remains subject to the condition precedent that none of the grandchildren attain age 25 and therefore the remainder can never be vested. Furthermore, there is no condition subsequent that would ever divest the Sisters of Charity of their interest once they acquired such interest. (C) is incorrect because without regard to the Rule, any interest that the Sisters of Charity would ever take would not divest Fran of her life estate. Thus, their interest could not be described as an executory interest.

\section{Answer to Question 46}

(D) The strongest argument against the validity of the state action is that state provision of textbooks to this segregated private school violates the Equal Protection Clause by giving state support to a racially segregated educational process. The practice amounts to significant state involvement in these activities. Note that a party challenging the state involvement here would also have to show a discriminatory motive, because the distribution of textbooks to all public and private schools is neutral on its face. (A) is incorrect because it is nonsensical. Providing textbooks necessarily serves a legitimate educational function; and even if it did not, there is no requirement that a state serve such a function in the exercise of its power to tax and spend. For example, denial by the Internal Revenue Service of tax-exempt status to racially discriminatory religious schools does not violate the Constitution since the governmental interest in ending racial discrimination outweighs the burden on these religious schools. (B) is wrong because a state may aid anyone as long as its acts are not constitutionally prohibited. (C) is incorrect because the Constitution does not forbid any private bias; it only forbids discriminatory state action. To the extent that private discrimination is forbidden under various federal civil rights acts, the source of the prohibition is legislative, not constitutional.

\section{Answer to Question 47}

(C) If it can be shown that there is neither a religious purpose nor an effect on religion, and that there is not excessive entanglement between government and religion, then the government is not involved in an establishment of religion. The fact that private sectarian schools fulfill an important function (A) would not justify a violation of the Establishment of Religion Clause. That religious instruction in private schools is not objectionable $(B)$ is true-but the issue here is whether the government is involved in the establishment of religion, not whether what is being taught is objectionable or unobjectionable. The Free Exercise Clause (D) does not require identical treatment of public and private schools and, furthermore, the relevant issue here involves the Establishment Clause, not the Free Exercise Clause.

\section{Answer to Question 48}

(A) Edgewater probably will be vicariously liable to Parka because Edgar's deviation did not take him outside the scope of the employment relationship. Under the doctrine of respondeat superior, an employer will be vicariously liable for tortious acts committed by its employee if the tortious acts occur within the scope of the employment relationship. What the scope of employment is in a particular case is a question of fact determined by factors such as the specific authorization by the employer, the employee's motivation, and the normal routines of the employee. Ordinarily, an employee heading home after work is no longer within the scope of employment. Here, however, Edgar was required to be "on call" 24 hours a day and was required to drive the company van to his home so that he would be ready to provide emergency service whenever a call would come in. Most likely, then, Edgar was still within the scope of his employment when he was driving the van home. The next issue is whether his deviation from his route home took him outside the scope of his employment. Most courts today consider the foreseeability of the deviation to be the most important factor in determining whether the employee was still within the scope of employment or was on a "frolic" of his own. Thus, minor deviations in time and geographic area from the employer's business are still within the scope of employment because they are foreseeable. Here, Edgar's deviation of a few blocks from his normal route home to pick up some groceries was not a substantial enough departure from his employment purposes so as to be unforeseeable, and therefore Edgewater can be held vicariously liable for Edgar's negligence. (B) is incorrect because Parka can recover even without showing that Edgewater knew of Edgar's potential for negligence. While that might make Edgewater independently liable for its own negligence in allowing Edgar to drive a company van, Edgewater is vicariously liable even without the assumption stated in choice (B). (C) is wrong because, as discussed above, a minor deviation of a few blocks is not considered a "frolic" by most courts unless it is unforeseeable. (D) is incorrect even though it is a true statement as a general rule. While an employee traveling to and from work ordinarily is not acting within the scope of his employment, Edgar was "on call" for his employer under the facts in this question even while he was driving home from work.

\section{Answer to Question 49}

(C) The best defense that Smythe's testimony offers is insanity. Under the M'Naghten test for insanity, defendant must show that (i) a disease of the mind (ii) caused a defect of reason (iii) such that defendant lacked the ability at the time of his actions to either know the wrongfulness of his actions or understand the nature and quality of his actions. Under the A.L.I./Model Penal Code test for insanity, the defendant is entitled to acquittal if the proof shows that he suffered from a mental disease or defect and as a result lacked substantial capacity to either: (i) appreciate the criminality (wrongfulness) of his conduct; or (ii) conform his conduct to the requirements of law. Smythe's testimony indicates insanity under either test. Smythe's hospitalizations indicate a mental disease and his delusion regarding his wife's basement activities indicates a defect of reason and an inability to appreciate the wrongfulness of his conduct. (A) is incorrect because Smythe intended to kill his wife; hence, the mens rea required for homicide, malice aforethought, is satisfied. (B) is incorrect because Smythe performed the act that killed his wife. (D) is incorrect because Smythe's belief was not a reasonable one and does not, by itself, establish a defense.

\section{Answer to Question 50}

(B) Scholastica will lose because Rector can raise consent as a complete defense to her libel action. A defamation action at common law required plaintiff to prove (i) defamatory language on defendant's part that is (ii) "of or concerning" the plaintiff, (iii) publication of the defamatory language to a third person, and (iv) damage to the reputation of the plaintiff. (Because the defamation here does not refer to a public figure or involve a matter of public concern, the elements of falsity and fault do not need to be proved.) In this case, Rector uttered a statement to a third person, Loretta, that linked Scholastica to the sale of drugs; this satisfies the first three elements of the prima facie case. Because the statement was libel (uttered in a writing), general damages will be presumed by law; Scholastica does not need to show actual damages from the statement. Hence, Scholastica can establish a prima facie case for libel against Rector. As with all torts, however, consent, whether express or implied, is a complete defense to a defamation action. Implied consent includes apparent consent, which is consent that a reasonable person would infer from plaintiff's conduct. Here, it was reasonable for Rector to infer that Scholastica's dispatch of her lawyer to request the reasons for her dismissal included a consent for Rector to make defamatory statements to the lawyer as long as they related to the reasons for Scholastica's dismissal. Thus, Scholastica impliedly consented to the statement in the letter and will not prevail in her suit against Rector. (A) is incorrect even though Rector should have verified the statement before repeating it. His defense is that Scholastica impliedly consented to the statement rather than that he did not originate the statement. (C) is incorrect because the fact that Rector did not originate the statement does not provide a defense. One who repeats a defamatory statement will be held liable on the same general basis as the primary publisher even though the repeater states the source or makes it clear that he does not believe the defamation. (D) is incorrect because whether Scholastica was dealing in drugs only affects whether Rector can also raise the defense of truth in this defamation action. Rector will win by raising the defense of consent; the fact that Scholastica was not dealing in drugs does not change this result.

\section{Answer to Question 51}

(B) Rose's motion should be denied because a prosecution for conspiracy is distinct from a prosecution for any substantive offense involving the same conduct as the conspiracy. The Fifth Amendment provides that no person shall be twice put in jeopardy for the same offense. The general rule is that two crimes do not constitute the same offense if each crime requires proof of an additional element that the other crime does not require, even though some of the same facts may be necessary to prove both crimes. [Blockburger v. United States (1932)] Furthermore, a prosecution for conspiracy is not barred merely because some of the alleged overt acts of that conspiracy have already been prosecuted. [United States v. Felix (1992)] Here, both the conspiracy charge and the possession charge require proof of an element that the other charge does not; hence, there is no double jeopardy problem with the indictment. (A) is incorrect because it is too broad a statement. The fact that separate statutes are involved does not establish that these are not the "same offense" for purposes of double jeopardy. (C) is incorrect because the "same conduct" test is not currently used by the Supreme Court to evaluate a double jeopardy claim. (D) is incorrect because the question involves defendant's motion to quash an indictment and not her ultimate punishment.

\section{Answer to Question 52}

(B) Where a statutory classification is challenged as violating the Equal Protection Clause, one of three tests is used. If the classification relates to exercise of a fundamental right or is based on a suspect trait, a compelling state interest must justify the classification. If a quasi-suspect classification is involved (i.e., one based on gender or legitimacy), the law will be upheld if it is substantially related to an important government interest. In other cases, the classification is valid if there is a rational basis for the classification. This rational basis test is used for classifications that relate to matters of economics or social welfare. The Midland statute does not infringe on a fundamental right, nor is it based on a suspect or quasi-suspect trait. Thus, it is judged under the rational basis test. (C) is incorrect because the compelling state interest test is inapplicable here. (A) is incorrect because the existence of a protected property interest is a consideration more appropriate to a due process argument than to one based on equal protection. (D) is incorrect because, although interstate travel is a fundamental right subject to the compelling state interest test, not every restriction on the right to cross state lines is an impairment of the right to travel. Prohibiting possession of snipe traps would not penalize or unduly burden the right of interstate travel.

\section{Answer to Question 53}

(D) A valid federal statute or regulation may expressly or impliedly occupy the entire field regulated, so as to preclude even nonconflicting state or local regulation of the same general subject. Here, the federal rule relates to the subject of consumer product safety, while the Midland statute relates to animal conservation. Thus, even if the federal rule is deemed to occupy the entire field that it regulates, that field differs from the field to which the state statute relates. Consequently, there is no preemption. It follows that (A) is incorrect. (B) is incorrect because the mere absence of affirmative authorization for continued state regulation does not establish preemption. (C) is simply an incorrect statement of the law; it is much too broad.

\section{Answer to Question 54}

(B) This videotape, after being properly authenticated, would be considered to be real evidence going to show the intoxicated state of Dryden shortly after he was driving. It would be admitted as relevant because its value would not be substantially outweighed by undue prejudice. (A) is incorrect because the videotape is not being offered to prove the truth of any statements that Dryden made; it is offered to prove only that he was intoxicated. Thus, there is no statement being made that would constitute an admission. (C) is wrong because Dryden is not being asked to give any testimony. Rather, the matter in question is the introduction of real proof. (D) is wrong because a videotape of the defendant at the time in question has nothing to do with specific instances of conduct, which have to do with past actions of the defendant.

\section{Answer to Question 55}

(C) The seller of land is obligated to deliver a title that is free from reasonable doubt either in fact or law. This does not require a perfect title, but rather one that is free from questions which might present an unreasonable risk of litigation. Title is marketable if a reasonably prudent buyer will accept it in the exercise of ordinary prudence. An inability to establish a record chain of title will generally render the title unmarketable. If the seller attempts to rely on adverse possession to show that defects have been cleared, courts traditionally do not favor such an argument, because proof of adverse possession normally rests on oral evidence, which might not be available to the buyer at a later time. Here, although Simmons may have acquired title by adverse possession, Boyd should not be faced with the prospect of having to prove this in court in the future. Thus, (A) is incorrect. (If Simmons had written proof or a quiet title judgment, title would be marketable.) (D) is incorrect because it does not appear that Simmons's conduct amounted to fraud. (B) is nonsensical.

\section{Answer to Question 56}

(D) Susan takes subject to State National Bank's mortgage. A foreclosure sale wipes out all junior mortgages (those that came later in time than the mortgage that was foreclosed) but does not wipe out senior mortgages (those that came earlier). Since State National Bank's mortgage preceded Home Finance's, it is senior and is not wiped out. Susan takes subject to this mortgage. Thus, (B) is wrong. Although Susan is not personally liable on this debt (she did not sign the note, Jane did), she must pay the mortgage or face foreclosure by State National. Since Property Equity Lenders's mortgage came later than Home Finance's, it is junior and is wiped out. Thus, (A) and (C) are wrong. If, after paying the cost of the foreclosure and paying off Home Finance's mortgage, there is money left over from the sale, it will first go to paying off Property Equity Lenders's mortgage. But regardless of whether Property Equity Lenders is paid off or not, Susan takes completely free of this obligation.

\section{Answer to Question 57}

(C) (C) is the least correct statement because a condition subsequent is one the occurrence of which cuts off an already existing absolute duty of performance. Beta's tendering of good title would not cut off Alpha's duty to perform. (A) and (B) are wrong because they are not inaccurate statements. A condition precedent is one that must occur before an absolute duty of immediate performance arises in the other party. When conditions are concurrent as they are here (as discussed below), it can be said that each condition is a condition precedent to the other. (D) is wrong because conditions concurrent are those that are capable of occurring together (which describes Alpha and Beta's relationship regarding the exchange of the farm and the apartment house) and the parties are bound to perform at the same time. In effect, each is a condition precedent to the other.

\section{Answer to Question 58}

(A) (A) is correct for the following reasons: A condition subsequent is one the occurrence of which cuts off an already existing duty of performance. The form of the condition requiring removal of the shed is that of a condition subsequent because, under the language of the contract, failure to do so will cut off Beta's duty to pay the \$ 1,000$. A condition precedent is one that must occur before an absolute duty of immediate performance arises in the other party. The substance of the shed removal provision is that of a condition precedent because no duty to pay \$ 1,000$ arises until after Alpha has removed the shed. (B) and (C) are wrong because Beta is not under a duty to pay the \$ 1,000$ before Alpha is required to remove the shed. (D) is wrong because removal of the shed is a condition precedent to Beta's duty to pay the \$ 1,000$.

\section{Answer to Question 59}

(C) A land occupier has an affirmative duty to warn or protect children against dangerous artificial conditions on the land. Thus, the best answer to the question is what Cantebury Trails should have done to best protect the children in this factual situation. (B) is thus easily eliminated, since it has nothing to do with this particular issue; regardless of the neighborhood, Cantebury Trails was aware that children played among the buses. (A) is not the best answer because Cantebury Trails must do what is necessary to protect the children, consistent with the business it is operating on the premises. This answer only goes to one narrow possibility of injury. There are many other ways the children could have been injured playing with these abandoned and wrecked buses. Due care could also have required installation of a higher fence or more diligent patrol of the yard. (D) is also not the best answer because the maintenance of the fence is not in issue; the facts indicate that the children were able to climb the fence without problem. Hence, $(\mathrm{C})$ is the best answer because it states a breach of duty in the broadest terms. Donny would be best able to show a breach of duty by proving that Cantebury Trails could have taken precautionary steps to prevent any injury to children who were tempted to come on the premises.

\section{Answer to Question 60}

(B) The record should be admitted because its direct relevance to the ultimate issue of the case outweighs the danger of prejudice against the defendant. (A) is wrong because evidence of this prior conviction would not be admissible as character evidence against Davidson. (C) is wrong because the process leading to conviction is irrelevant. (D) is wrong because an exception to the hearsay rule applies. Federal Rule 803 (22) provides that judgments of felony convictions are admissible in both criminal and civil actions to prove any fact essential to the judgment. Felony convictions are those for which the potential punishment is imprisonment in excess of one year; hence, the hearsay exception applies here. 

\section{Answer to Question 61}

(C) Defendant will not be guilty of burglary in situation (C) because he did not have an intent to commit a felony at the time he entered Victor's house. The elements of burglary as defined by the jurisdiction here are (i) a breaking (ii) and entry (iii) of a dwelling or other building (iv) of another (v) at nighttime (vi) with the intent of committing a felony therein. In situation (C), Defendant entered Victor's house with the intent only to obtain repayment of a debt, which does not satisfy the intent required for larceny. Since Defendant believed he was entitled to take the money as repayment of the debt, he did not intend to permanently deprive Victor of his property. The fact that he later decided to steal the painting will not establish the requisite intent; it must exist at the time of entry for burglary to be established. (A) is wrong because Defendant committed a constructive breaking by gaining entry to the store by means of fraud, and the other elements of burglary are present from the facts. (Note that the fact that he broke out of the store after he committed the felony is irrelevant.) (B) is incorrect because Defendant committed an entry of the premises by reaching his hand through the mail slot. Since he had the intent to commit a felony at that point, he has committed a burglary; his withdrawal is irrelevant. (D) is wrong because Defendant made an entry by inserting an inanimate object (the bullet) into the dwelling by breaking (the window) with the intent to commit a felony (since he knew he did not have authority to use deadly force). Hence, he has committed a burglary.

\section{Answer to Question 62}

(C) The evidence is admissible to show that the tree was on Dow's property. While evidence of repairs made following an accident is generally inadmissible to prove negligence or culpable conduct under Federal Rule 407, such evidence may be introduced to show ownership or control, since a stranger would hardly make repairs. (A) is wrong because while there is such a public policy, in this case a valid exception applies. (B) is wrong because the evidence is not being introduced to show the condition of the tree at the time of the accident. (D) is wrong because Dow's cutting down of the tree cannot be admitted to show the tree was in a rotted condition. This would contravene the policy of the rule, which has the purpose of encouraging people to make such repairs.

\section{Answer to Question 63}

(C) Lane, as the beneficiary of the nonassignment clause, could have taken positive action to avoid the transfer, but by accepting rent from Andrews, he waived his right to avoid the transfer. Talbot has no such right to contest the transfer because he was not the beneficiary of the nonassignment clause. (A) is wrong because one co-tenant generally does not need the consent of other cotenants to assign his interest. Only Lane's consent was necessary under the lease clause. Since Lane waived his right to avoid the transfer, the transfer became valid. (B) is wrong because the right to enforce this lease provision was waived by Lane. (D) is wrong because nonassignment clauses in leases are valid. They are not considered to be void restraints on alienation.

\section{Answer to Question 64}

(D) The judge should overrule the objection because lay opinion is permissible (and often essential) to identify handwriting. A foundation must first be laid to establish familiarity with the handwriting. (A) is wrong because expert testimony is not necessary to identify handwriting. (B) is incorrect because only a proper foundation is required for the admission of testimony identifying handwriting. The fact that there are other individuals who may be more familiar with or in more recent contact with the handwriting does not, of itself, preclude admissibility of the teacher's testimony. The fact that the teacher has not seen John's handwriting for 10 years goes to the credibility of her testimony but not to its admissibility. (C) is wrong because expert testimony is not required for handwriting identification and, therefore, the witness need not be qualified as an expert.

\section{Answer to Question 65}

(A) Wanda will prevail on a theory of intentional infliction of emotional distress. To establish liability for intentional infliction of emotional distress, the defendants must have intended to cause severe emotional distress (i.e., either acted with the goal of bringing about such distress or knew with substantial certainty that such distress would result from their conduct). It is also sufficient if the defendants acted recklessly, i.e., in deliberate disregard of a high probability that their conduct would cause emotional distress. Here, Grandmaw and Grandpaw caused Wanda to spend four years not knowing where her young son was. Grandmaw and Grandpaw acted in deliberate disregard of the high probability that a mother would be severely distressed by being kept from her child, not knowing whether he was safe or even alive. (A) correctly states the requisite intent for this tort. (B) is incorrect because, as explained above, it is not required that defendant actually know that the conduct would cause severe emotional distress. (C) is incorrect because it is not necessary to prove physical injuries to recover for intentional infliction of emotional distress. (D) is incorrect because the "zone of danger" is more appropriately used in determining liability for negligent infliction of emotional distress. Here, Wanda has a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.

\section{Answer to Question 66}

(B) The general rule is that people do not have standing as taxpayers to challenge the way tax dollars are spent because their interest is too remote. However, there is an exception to the general rule. A federal taxpayer has standing to challenge federal appropriations and spending measures if she can establish that the challenged measure: (i) was enacted under Congress's taxing and spending power; and (ii) exceeds some specific limitation on the power. To date, the only limit that the Supreme Court has found on the taxing power is the Establishment Clause. Here, Allen's challenge is based upon such an Establishment Clause matter. Hence, the exception applies and (B) is correct. (A) is incorrect because it is overbroad. Only spending falling within the exception described above may be challenged by taxpayers. (C) is incorrect because sufficient "nexus" is a concept applied to state taxation of interstate commerce-a state can tax only those persons with a sufficient relationship to the state. Here, the complaint is not that Allen is being taxed, but that the tax money is being spent in violation of the Constitution. (D) is wrong. First, state action is involved-the government is giving money for textbooks. Second, standing depends on whether the party has a concrete stake in the outcome of the litigation and is not dependent on whether the action complained of is state action.

\section{Answer to Question 67}

(D) The salary supplements probably will be held unconstitutional. The controlling case in this area is Lemon v. Kurtzman (1971), which determined that supplements to salaries of teachers in religious school raised "excessive entanglement" problems. The current Establishment Clause test is that the government program must: (i) have a secular purpose; (ii) have a primary effect that neither advances nor inhibits religion; and (iii) not produce excessive government entanglement with religion. The instant case raises both "primary purpose" and, from the policing of the restriction on use of the funds, "entanglement" problems. Option (D) goes most directly to the issue in question and is, therefore, correct. (A) is incorrect because it does not consider the "entanglement" problems of the "no religious instruction" restriction. The answer given in option (A) goes only to the "secular purpose" issue. (B) is incorrect because: (i) no "free exercise" issues are involved here; and (ii) distinguishing between public and private schools avoids Establishment Clause problems. (C) is incorrect because the facts do not indicate disproportionality. Even if disproportionality can be assumed, the courts have elected to invalidate similar laws on the basis of the three-pronged test discussed above rather than couching the issues in terms of "sect preference."

\section{Answer to Question 68}

(A) The Supreme Court applies the Establishment Clause prohibitions less strictly when the benefited institution is a religiously affiliated college or hospital rather than a grade or secondary school. The Court will uphold a government grant of aid to such a college or hospital as long as the government program requires that the aid be used only for nonreligious purposes and the recipient so agrees in good faith. Option (A) most nearly approximates this test and is, therefore, correct. (B), on the other hand, is incorrect because it is overbroad. "Bricks and mortar" may not be used, e.g., to build a college chapel. (C) is incorrect because it is overbroad in another direction. Certain grants (e.g., state-approved textbooks, transportation to and from school, expenses of compiling state-required data) have been allowed even for grade and secondary schools. (D) is incorrect because the Supreme Court has found that no excessive entanglement is involved when government funds are used to build "secular" buildings at colleges and universities.

\section{Answer to Question 69}

(D) An offer must be accepted within a reasonable time. Eureka's reply letter constituted an offer to sell 24 LBVCs for \$ 39.99$. Gourmet accepted this offer by a memo plus full performance. If this occurred within a reasonable time, a contract was formed. (A) is incorrect because contracts may be formed by nonmerchants. (B) is incorrect because the contract would have already been formed by Gourmet's acceptance; it is irrelevant whether Eureka has enough stock on hand. (C) is incorrect because Eureka's offer called for prompt acceptance and so did not constitute a firm offer, which must be kept open for a reasonable time, not to exceed three months.

\section{Answer to Question 70}

(C) If Eureka's original reply was not an offer, then Gourmet's sending the check and memo would have been an offer and Eureka's shipment of the LBVCs would have been an acceptance. The acceptance would have included terms altering the offer (the no resale provision), but under the U.C.C., between merchants such terms generally become part of the contract. Thus, Gourmet could be held liable for breaching the no resale provision. (A) is wrong because under Article 2 , the status of Eureka does not change the result. (B) is wrong because if the invoice by Eureka was a material alteration, Eureka would not prevail. (D) is incorrect because the phrase "not available in stores" is not sufficient to restrict subsequent resale. It merely indicates that the LBVCs were not currently available in stores.

\section{Answer to Question 71}

(D) A strict liability offense does not require awareness of all of the factors constituting the crime. Strict liability offenses are generally part of a regulatory scheme. They generally involve a relatively low penalty. Here, (A) and (B) are incorrect because the offenses described do not appear to be part of a regulatory scheme. Also, they appear to require awareness of all of the factors constituting the crime; i.e., a defendant probably could not be convicted under (A) without an awareness that he was shoplifting, and a defendant probably could not be convicted under (B) without an awareness that he possessed heroin. (C) presents a closer question. The offense described in (C) appears to be part of a scheme to regulate firearms. The offense described in (D) is part of a scheme to regulate the sale of milk for the purpose of protecting the public from the threat of consumption of tainted milk. Such statutes, in protecting the public health and safety, almost always provide for culpability, regardless of the seller's knowledge of the tainted nature of the product. Also, the statute in (D) describes a misdemeanor, meaning that a violation thereof carries a lesser penalty than does violation of the felony statute in (C). Consequently, because (D) fits more closely the classic concept of a strict liability offense, it is a better answer than (C).

\section{Answer to Question 72}

(A) Most courts impose upon a landowner the duty to exercise ordinary care to avoid reasonably foreseeable risk of harm to children caused by artificial conditions on his property. Under the general rule, the plaintiff must show: (i) that there is a dangerous condition present on the land that the owner is (or should be) aware of; (ii) that the owner knows or should know that young persons frequent the vicinity of this dangerous condition; (iii) that the condition is likely to cause injury because of the child's inability to appreciate the risk; and (iv) that the expense of remedying the situation is slight compared to the magnitude of the risk. If the sprinkler head was a hazard that Peter would probably not discover, it would meet the requirements for a showing of attractive nuisance, and O'Neill would be liable. (B) is incorrect because O'Neill would continue to be responsible even if he had objected to the children playing on the common area. (C) is incorrect because it is of no consequence where Peter lived. (D) is incorrect because there is a higher standard of care where attractive nuisances to children are concerned.

\section{Answer to Question 73}

(B) A state may require that those enrolled to vote be bona fide residents of the community. However, any law regulating the right of persons over age 18 to vote must be narrowly tailored to promote a compelling interest. (A) is incorrect because a state does have a compelling interest in the integrity of the voting process that will support narrowly tailored restrictions. (C) is incorrect because whether persons have attained the age of majority has nothing to do with their status as bona fide residents. (D) is incorrect because there does not appear to be any discriminatory effect on interstate commerce. (B) is correct because it is the only answer that recognizes that the state may limit ballot access to actual residents, albeit with safeguards against over-inclusiveness; e.g., the state should provide means by which the students can show that they are bona fide residents.

\section{Answer to Question 74}

(C) Perry is entitled to the proceeds of the sale because under the doctrine of equitable conversion a deceased seller's interest generally passes as personal property. If the seller dies, "bare" legal title passes to the takers of his real property, but they must give up the title to the buyer when the contract closes. When the purchase price is paid, the money passes as personal property to those who take the seller's personal property (unless the seller specifically devises the land in question to a devisee). Thus, Perry, as the personal property devisee, is entitled to the proceeds of the sale. (A) is incorrect as a matter of law. A real estate contract survives the death of either party unless the agreement itself provides otherwise. (B) is wrong because the doctrine of equitable conversion came into play as soon as the contract of sale was signed. (D) is wrong because marketable title is title reasonably free from doubt. Generally, this involves either defects in the chain of title or encumbrances that might present an unreasonable risk of litigation. Such problems are not present in these facts.

\section{Answer to Question 75}

(A) Buyer's heir may specifically enforce the agreement. Under the doctrine of equitable conversion and principles applicable in most states, if the buyer dies, the takers of his real property can demand a conveyance of the land at the closing of the contract. (B) is incorrect because the death of either Seller or Buyer does not render the agreement cancellable at the will of either party. (C) is wrong because a real estate contract survives the death of either party unless the agreement itself provides otherwise. (D) is wrong because marketable title is title reasonably free from doubt. Generally, this involves either defects in the chain of title or encumbrances that might present an unreasonable risk of litigation. Such problems are not present in these facts.

\section{Answer to Question 76}

(D) By process of elimination: (A) is not the best answer because it cannot be determined whether the eyewitness was under the influence of the exciting event when he spoke to the police, and there are multiple levels of hearsay involved. (B) suffers from the same defects. (C) is wrong because inability to cure an error by jury instruction is not a valid reason for denying a motion to strike. Therefore, (D) must be the best answer-since Dellacourt's counsel was being argumentative, and asked how the witness knew a certain fact, the specific response to counsel's question might be admitted as precisely what counsel asked for.

\section{Answer to Question 77}

(A) In a strict liability action, the plaintiff must prove that a product was so defective that it is unreasonably dangerous. The defect causing the harm must have existed when the product left the defendant's control. The defendant must be a commercial supplier of the product in question. Brake failure on a bicycle is an unreasonably dangerous defect. If this defect existed when the bicycle left the factory of Cycle Company, then Roth has a viable cause of action sounding in strict liability against Bike Shop, a supplier in the distributive chain. Thus, (A) is correct. (B) is wrong because it implies absolute liability, not strict liability; i.e., Bike Shop is not liable simply because the brakes failed. It must be established that the brakes were defective when placed in commerce. $(\mathrm{C})$ is wrong because, in jurisdictions retaining traditional contributory negligence rules, ordinary contributory negligence does not bar recovery in strict liability cases where the plaintiff fails to discover the defect or to take steps to guard against its existence. (D) is wrong because a careful inspection would be relevant to a negligence action, but not to one based on strict liability.

\section{Answer to Question 78}

(B) To prevail on a negligence claim, Perez must show negligent conduct by Cycle Company, leading to the supplying of a defective product by the company. (B) is the correct answer because the failure to exercise reasonable care is a major element in a negligence action. (A) is wrong because simply placing a defective bicycle into the stream of commerce would present grounds for a strict liability action, but not one for negligence. Some negligence must be shown. (C) is wrong because privity is not required. The duty of due care is owed to any foreseeable plaintiff. (D) is wrong because any negligence on the part of Roth is reasonably foreseeable and will not relieve Cycle Company of the consequences of its negligence. 

\section{Answer to Question 79}

(B) Manslaughter will not serve as the underlying felony in a felony murder prosecution. The felony murder rule can be applied only where the underlying felony is independent of the killing. With a felony such as manslaughter, there is ordinarily no intent to commit a felony independent of the killing itself; hence, felony murder does not apply. In contrast, the other crimes listed would satisfy the requirement that the defendant intend to commit an underlying felony. One who is guilty of arson (choice A) would have intended that a burning take place. Attempted rape (choice C) requires the intent to perform an act which, if achieved, would constitute rape. Burglary (choice D) requires intent to commit a felony at time of entry.

\section{Answer to Question 80}

(C) Williams's testimony is hearsay, because it relates to a statement made by the driver, while not testifying at the trial, and it is offered in evidence to prove the truth of the matter asserted; i.e., that the blue convertible was involved in the hit-and-run accident. (B) is incorrect because the fact that the driver's statement came 10 minutes after the accident probably indicates that the statement was not made close enough to the time of receipt of the sense impression to qualify for the present sense impression exception. (A) is incorrect because there is no "recent perception" exception to the hearsay rule. (D) is incorrect because the evidence is very probative and would not be excluded as prejudicial simply because its receipt in evidence would disadvantage the defendant Dorry.

\section{Answer to Question 81}

(D) Claret is not an intended beneficiary of the contract between Bouquet and Vintage. Although Claret was mentioned in the contract, it seems clear that Bouquet and Vintage did not intend to confer any benefits or rights on Claret. Rather, the parties seem to have been simply expressing a preference as to the distributor of the wine, with no indication that the validity of the contract depended on use of Claret as the distributor. (A) is incorrect because Vintage was contractually bound to perform only with regard to Bouquet, rather than to Claret. (B) is incorrect because Bouquet and Vintage could not foresee that Claret would act in reliance on a contract that conferred no rights on him. (C) is incorrect because an express agreement between Bouquet and Vintage would not have been necessary to a determination that Claret had some rights under the contract. For example, if Claret stood in such a relationship to Bouquet that one could infer that Bouquet wished to make an agreement for his benefit, then it would be more likely that the contract was primarily for the benefit of Claret. (D) is the best answer because the key factor is that Bouquet and Vintage were simply protecting their own interests, with no thought of conferring a benefit upon Claret.

\section{Answer to Question 82}

(C) The only theory under which Amicusbank can recover Bouquet's share of the profits is that Amicusbank is an assignee of Bouquet's rights. (D) would not provide a strong defense for Vintage, because it is clear that Amicusbank was not an intended beneficiary of the BouquetVintage contract. (A) is incorrect because there is no presumption that an assignment is invalid absent express authorization in the contract. (B) is incorrect because, even if Bouquet and Vintage are partners, Bouquet would still be able to assign his rights to profits. (C) is the best answer, because Amicusbank's only hope of prevailing is for it to be considered an assignee of Bouquet's rights. It appears that the written instrument executed by Bouquet lacks the present words of assignment necessary to manifest the intent of the assignor to transfer his rights under the contract completely and immediately to the assignee. The instrument merely allows Amicusbank to collect the debt from Bouquet's share of the profits. Thus, Vintage has a fairly strong argument that Amicusbank is not an assignee of Bouquet's rights under the BouquetVintage contract.

\section{Answer to Question 83}

(A) A contractual duty may not be delegated if performance by the delegate will materially change the obligee's expectancy under the contract. Here, substitution of Agribiz, a company with no experience in the wine-grape business, for Vintage, an established entity in the business, greatly decreases the probable profits which will accrue to Bouquet, the obligee. Thus, a court should rule that the attempted delegation by Vintage of its duty to grow grapes for the venture is invalid. It follows that (C) is incorrect. (B) is incorrect because a delegation can be effective absent a contractual provision authorizing the same. (D) is incorrect because, although Vintage certainly must delegate duties to its individual employees, here it is attempting to delegate duties to an entirely different company, one with no experience or reputation in the industry.

\section{Answer to Question 84}

(A) In defamation actions involving a private person plaintiff and a defamatory statement relating to a matter of public concern, the plaintiff must show that the defendant acted, if not with malice, then at least negligently. This principle applies where the defamatory potential of the statement was apparent. Here, Miller is a private person plaintiff. His application for transfer of a liquor license, as the subject of public hearing held by a governmental entity, is a matter of public concern. The defamatory potential of Hammond's accusations of Miller's underworld connections is apparent. Therefore, Hammond must have, at the very least, been negligent for Miller to recover; i.e., no strict liability. (A) reflects this fact. (B) is incorrect because Miller's reputation could have been damaged even if his application were granted. (C) is incorrect because it implies liability without fault, simply because a false statement was made. (D) is incorrect because, even if Hammond's appearance was voluntary, there still must be a showing of fault.

\section{Answer to Question 85}

(C) Actual possession of property held in concurrent ownership by one concurrent owner for the statutory adverse possession period will not be sufficient to give that possessor title to the whole estate to the exclusion of his co-tenant, unless there has been an ouster. Here, Arthur occupied Goodacre under unity of possession with Celia. Thus, his possession is not adverse to that of Celia and (A) is incorrect. (D) is incorrect because, had Arthur ousted Celia prior to possessing the land for the required period, he could claim title to all of Goodacre because his possession would have been adverse. (B) is incorrect because the facts do not indicate that Celia intended to renounce her rights in the property.

\section{Answer to Question 86}

(A) The choice to testify will be Wanda's. In federal court, one spouse may testify against the other in a criminal case, with or without the consent of the party-spouse. Thus, the witness-spouse may not be compelled to testify, but neither may she be foreclosed from testifying (except as to a confidential communication made between the spouses while they were husband and wife). Here, Wanda is being asked to testify about a meeting in which her husband participated that took place before her marriage to David. Thus, the privilege for confidential marital communications is inapplicable, making (C) incorrect. Of (A), (B), and (D), only (A) reflects the fact that Wanda may not be compelled to testify, nor may she be foreclosed from testifying.

\section{Answer to Question 87}

(C) The motion to dismiss should be denied. For purposes of the Double Jeopardy Clause, two crimes do not constitute the "same offense" if each crime requires proof of an additional element that the other crime does not require, even though some of the same facts may be necessary to prove both crimes. Here, even though the same facts are involved for both crimes, the robbery charge requires proof of a taking by force but not a death, while the murder charge requires proof of a death but not of a taking of property. Thus, (C) is correct and (A) is incorrect. (B) is incorrect because armed robbery is not a lesser included offense of premeditated murder. (D) is incorrect because the prosecution would be estopped if violation of one statute constituted a lesser included offense of the other statute.

\section{Answer to Question 88}

(B) Under Article I, Section 8, Congress may spend to "provide for the common defense and general welfare," which means, in effect, that spending may be for any public purpose. Furthermore, the Necessary and Proper Clause grants Congress the power to make all laws appropriate for carrying into execution any power granted to any branch of the federal government. The power to require that the weapons system be purchased falls within this rubric. Furthermore, the President has no constitutional authority to "impound" (i.e., refuse to spend) funds whose expenditures Congress has expressly mandated. (A) is incorrect as a matter of law. Whether a bill is passed with the President's signature or over his veto is not relevant to the question of whether spending is permissive or mandatory. $(C)$ is incorrect because even though the President's powers do not expressly refer to spending, the President has extensive military powers as commander in chief that could include spending for military necessities in the event of actual hostilities against the United States. (D) is wrong because, in the event of actual hostilities, the President, as commander in chief of the armed forces and militia, could exercise his inherent power to allocate funds. There is also some case law implying that the President has some inherent powers, even in internal affairs, to meet national emergency needs.

\section{Answer to Question 89}

(B) Potts can testify as to any first-hand knowledge he has and need not rely on any written records if he presently remembers the facts. First-hand knowledge is considered to be reliable testimony. (A) is wrong because the records themselves are not being introduced. (C) is wrong because the best evidence rule applies only in situations where the content of the writing is in issue. Here, Potts is testifying about facts he perceived; facts that exist apart from the writing. The notebooks merely describe what Potts saw and knows personally. (D) is wrong because no such summary is sought to be introduced, and even if it were, (D) is an incorrect statement of the law.

\section{Answer to Question 90}

(B) Testimony obtained by a promise of immunity is by definition coerced and therefore involuntary. Thus, immunized testimony may not be used for impeachment of the defendant's testimony at trial. Simmons's testimony will not be permitted to be used against Taylor because it resulted from Taylor's immunized testimony. (A) is wrong because it is an inaccurate statement of the law. Prosecutors can bargain away the rights of co-defendants. (C) is wrong because police suspicion is not the equivalent of actual testimony. (D) is wrong. Even though a witness wants to testify, various privileges such as lawyer/client, doctor/patient, etc., may bar the testimony. Here, the grant of immunity to Taylor is a bar to Simmons's derived testimony because use immunity bars use of one's testimony or anything derived from it.

\section{Answer to Question 91}

(C) Dino owed to a foreseeable plaintiff a general duty to behave as a reasonable person would under the same or similar circumstances. If, upon noticing that the car was once again pulling to the left when braking, Dino should have been on notice that further operation of the car was dangerous, then he should have had the car towed to the repair shop. Continuing to drive the car with knowledge of an attendant danger would create an unreasonable risk of injury to people such as Pedestrian, and would constitute a breach of Dino's duty of care. However, Dino had no reason to know of the dangerous underlying problem (the defective master cylinder), and he had been assured by Dealer's mechanic that the car was safe to drive. (A) is incorrect because Dino had been assured by Dealer's mechanic that a recurrence of the problem would not result in total brake failure. Thus, Dino had a reasonable belief that he could safely drive the car to Dealer. (B) is incorrect because Dino's duty to maintain his car's brakes does not make him strictly liable for a brake failure. Dino reasonably relied on the advice of Dealer's mechanic in believing that the car was safe to drive. It is true that, as (D) states, Dino had diligently had his brakes repaired, but if he had reason to know, subsequent to the repairs, that the brakes were dangerous, he should not have driven the car. Because Dino reasonably relied on the advice of Dealer's mechanic, Dino had no reason to know of the danger involved in continuing to drive the car. Thus, (C) is a better answer than (D).

\section{Answer to Question 92}

(B) To hold Belchfire, a manufacturer, strictly liable for a defect in the car, the car must have reached the consumer without substantial change in the condition in which it was supplied. If the master cylinder was defective when the car left Belchfire's control, then Belchfire has produced a product that is so defective as to be unreasonably dangerous. This defective product actually and proximately caused Pedestrian's personal injuries, and so Belchfire will be liable. (A) is wrong because, unlike (B), it ignores the requirement that the defect be attributable to the manufacturer. (C) is wrong because Pedestrian's strict liability action is based on failure of the master cylinder. The facts do not establish that the mechanic's readjustment of the brakes effected any alteration in the master cylinder. Thus, the work performed on the brakes does not preclude the success of Pedestrian's action against Belchfire. (D) is wrong because a history of brake defects would show that Belchfire should have had notice of the problem. Such notice would be relevant to a negligence action, but not to an action for strict liability.

\section{Answer to Question 93}

(C) While inspecting and repairing Dino's car, Dealer's mechanic owed a general duty of due care to Dino and to any other foreseeable plaintiff. If a reasonably competent mechanic would have discovered the defective cylinder while inspecting and repairing the brakes, then Dealer's mechanic breached the duty of due care by failing to discover the defective cylinder. This breach of duty caused injury to Pedestrian, a foreseeable plaintiff. Dealer would be vicariously liable, under the doctrine of respondeat superior, for the negligence of his employee, the mechanic. (C) is correct because it recognizes that Dealer's liability in negligence hinges on whether the mechanic should have discovered the defective master cylinder. (B) is incorrect because it ignores the possibility that the mechanic should not have been expected to discover the defective cylinder while seeking to remedy the problem originally complained of by Dino. (A) is incorrect because merely selling the car with an unreasonably dangerous defect, without knowing or being expected to know of the defect, will not subject Dealer to liability for negligence. The statement in (A) is more appropriate in an action based on strict liability. (D) is incorrect because, absent any reason to believe that Belchfire is not a reputable manufacturer, Dealer is not liable for Belchfire's negligence.

\section{Answer to Question 94}

(A) Gaint is seeking to enforce the covenant by means of an equitable remedy. Thus, this question concerns an equitable servitude. An equitable servitude relates to a promise that touches and concerns the land. A covenant touches and concerns the land when it makes the land itself more useful or valuable to the benefited party. Here, an agreement to purchase electrical power only from a specified source probably does not touch and concern the land. (B) is incorrect because a common development scheme is not necessary for an equitable servitude. (C) is incorrect because the covenant here does not restrain alienation. (D) is incorrect because privity of estate is not required for enforcement of an equitable servitude, and in any event, privity is present here.

\section{Answer to Question 95}

(B) The Supreme Court has specifically upheld requirements that public employees take an oath to "support the Constitution of the United States" and the state constitution [Connell v. Higgenbotham (1971)] and that state employees take an oath "to oppose the overthrow of the government . . by force, violence, or by an illegal or unconstitutional method." [Cole v. Richardson (1972)] The Court held that such oaths merely required the takers "to commit themselves to live by the processes of our system." (B) is, therefore, correct because it reflects these Supreme Court precedents involving loyalty oaths. (A) is incorrect because the Supreme Court has moved away from the old privilege vs. right analysis, and, in any case, there is no justification based upon "privilege" that would permit oaths that are overbroad or vague, resulting in a chilling effect on First Amendment activities. (C) is wrong because it is overbroad. States may not infringe on First Amendment rights in employment. (D) is wrong. It is doubtful that a college instructor position would be considered to be a position of governmental trust.

\section{Answer to Question 96}

(B) Homey will only be able to recover his actual damages; the liquidated damages clause is unenforceable because it constitutes a penalty. A liquidated damages clause will be enforced only if: (i) damages in case of breach were difficult to ascertain at the time the contract was made, and (ii) the amount agreed upon was a reasonable approximation of what the damages would be. The liquidated damages clause here fails the second test. The facts indicate that Homey knew that he would not be moving into the new house until November. Thus, there is no reason for assuming that Structo's late performance would cause any damages until November. The \$ 500$ a day late fee during October can thus only be viewed as a penalty. Therefore, the liquidated damages clause will be unenforceable and Homey will be able to collect only actual damages. (C) is incorrect because there was no valid waiver here. For a waiver of rights to be valid, one must at least know of the rights being waived. Here, Homey did not know of Structo's late performance when Homey paid. Thus, the payment cannot constitute a waiver of Homey's rights arising from the late performance. (D) is incorrect-there was no enforceable modification here-because of the parol evidence rule. The parol evidence rule prohibits a party to a written contract from bringing into court evidence of prior or contemporaneous oral communications that seek to vary the terms of the written contract. Here, the oral statement was made before the written contract was signed, and the evidence seeks to vary the completion date provided in the written contract. This will not be allowed under the parol evidence rule. Thus, Structo will not be able to bring in evidence seeking to vary the written date.

\section{Answer to Question 97}

(A) Structo will win because the condition of the architect's certificate will be excused by Bilevel's bad faith. While the issuance of the certificate was an express condition precedent to Homey's duty to pay, the condition will be excused by Homey's hindrance. If a party having a duty of performance that is subject to a condition wrongfully prevents the condition from occurring, the condition will be excused. Here, Homey's duty of payment was subject to the condition precedent that Bilevel issue a certificate of approval, and Homey wrongfully hindered the occurrence of the condition by agreeing to allow Bilevel to not issue the certificate for an improper reasonStructo had done all that it was obliged to do under the contract properly and the only reason for refusing the certificate is that Bilevel and Homey believe the price Homey agreed to is now too high. This is not a valid reason for withholding the certificate. Thus, the condition of the certificate will be excused and Structo can collect the full \$ 40,000$. (B) is incorrect because, as explained above, the condition of the architect's certificate will be excused. Thus, the contract is fully enforceable. (C) and (D) are incorrect because, as explained above, the contract is fully enforceable. Thus, Homey will have to pay the contract price. It is not a defense that the price is higher than it should have been at current prices.

\section{Answer to Question 98}

(D) The entry into Desmond's apartment and his arrest, without a warrant, probable cause, or circumstances permitting an exception from these requirements, were illegal. The statements he made thereafter were fruits of the original illegality and must be suppressed unless the taint was purged. The giving of Miranda warnings was not sufficient. Hence, (D) is the best answer. If probable cause for a warrant is based on information from an informer, usually that informer's identity need not be revealed. Thus, (A) is incorrect. (B) is a misstatement of law. There was no interrogation by the police to trigger the Miranda requirements. (C) is attractive but not as accurate an answer as (D). If the police had been acting with probable cause to arrest, their forced entry into the apartment would not have made Desmond's statements involuntary.

\section{Answer to Question 99}

(D) Don can introduce all of the items of character evidence as part of his defense. The general rule is that evidence of character to prove the conduct of a person in the litigated event is not admissible in a civil case. However, when a person's character itself is one of the issues in the case, character evidence is not only admissible, but in fact is the best method of proving the issue. Where the plaintiff brings a defamation action for injury to reputation and the defendant pleads as an affirmative defense that his statements were true, plaintiff's character is directly at issue in the case. Under the Federal Rules, any of the types of evidence (reputation, opinion, or specific acts) may be used to prove character when character is directly in issue. [Fed. R. Evid. 405 (b)] Here, William's character is at issue and Don is offering character evidence to show that his assertion that the mayor is corrupt is a true statement. Item I. is evidence of a specific act that demonstrates the mayor's character for corruption; Item II. is testimony regarding the mayor's general reputation in the state as a corrupt politician; and Item III. is opinion testimony about the mayor's corrupt character. All of these items of evidence are admissible; hence, (D) is the correct choice. 

\section{Answer to Question 100}

(B) Purr will be entitled to obtain specific performance. If the vendor of land cannot give marketable title but the purchaser wishes to proceed with the transaction, the purchaser can usually obtain specific performance with an abatement of the purchase price in an amount representing the title defect. Here, Kuzz's legitimate claim to $1 / 10$ of the property constituted a defect that would make title unmarketable. The title defect was cured by Purr at a cost of \$ 10,000$. Thus, an abatement will be applied to the purchase price. The certified check for \$ 140,000$ in choice (B) represents the purchase price $(\$ 160,000)$ less the earnest money already paid $(\$ 10,000)$ less the abatement to obtain marketable title $(\$ 10,000)$, leaving the amount to be tendered as \$ 140,000$. (A) is wrong because either the abatement or the earnest money is not taken into account with that figure. (C) is wrong because Purr acted reasonably in clearing the title defect himself. The rule that a buyer must notify a seller of title defects is intended to prevent the buyer from avoiding the closing by raising a title defect problem at the last minute. Here, Purr was trying to facilitate the closing by resolving the title problem himself, which he did. Prior notice to Venn was not necessary in this case. (D) is wrong because the action is based on a contract that was signed before any potential co-tenancy occurred, and there is no rule that precludes a co-tenant from obtaining specific performance from another co-tenant on an otherwise valid contract.

\section{Answer to Question 101}

(D) Egbert prevails if he believed the truth of the assertion. Charles is a candidate for public office and, as such, to recover he must establish (i) falsity, and (ii) "actual malice"-i.e., knowledge of falsity or reckless disregard of truth or falsity. Thus, if Egbert honestly believed the truth of his statement, Charles could not show actual malice, and Egbert would prevail. (A) is wrong because it goes to malice in the sense of "ill will." That type of malice is not the standard for defamation; it is irrelevant that defendant wanted to "get even" with Charles. (B) is wrong because a showing of negligence is not sufficient to recover for defamation of a public official or figure; knowledge of falsity or reckless disregard of truth or falsity is required. (C) is wrong because even if the story is a matter of public concern, Charles might still prevail if he can show fault on the part of Egbert-such as Egbert's reckless disregard for whether the statement was true.

\section{Answer to Question 102}

(D) Mathews will not be convicted of an attempt to violate the statute if her employee did not have the requisite intent. Although the statute has been interpreted to create a strict liability crime, which does not require proof of criminal intent, to attempt a strict liability crime requires proof that the defendant acted with the intent to bring about the proscribed result. Therefore, for Mathews to be charged vicariously with attempt, her employee must have acted with the requisite intent; he must have intended to sell the ammunition to a minor. If he did not so intend, Mathews will not be convicted of attempt. (A) is incorrect because this is a case of factual impossibility, which is not a defense to attempt. (B) is incorrect because careful instructions will not, in and of themselves, absolve an employer from vicarious liability. (C) is incorrect because the strict liability elements of the underlying offense make it clear that knowledge of the age of the purchaser is not an element of the underlying offense. Thus, the clerk (and Mathews) can be liable for selling ammunition to a minor no matter how old the purchaser looked or how old he claimed to be. Duncan's lie may have bearing on the clerk's lack of intent, but this is not as direct an answer as (D).

\section{Answer to Question 103}

(B) Where a dispute exists as to the meaning of a written agreement's terms, parol evidence can be received to aid the fact finder in reaching a correct interpretation of the agreement. The Uniform Commercial Code, which governs the contract here, follows the modern approach that permits evidence of interpretation even when the terms are not patently ambiguous. [See U.C.C. \$ 2-202$, comment 1] Here, the terms may be explained by the previous course of dealing between the parties, because it suggests that the parties understood that specifying "Yellow Giant" in the contract did not mean that a Yellow Giant was being ordered. In addition, the fact that the purchase price for the "Yellow Giant" is \$ 25,000$ more than the going price for a Yellow Giant creates enough uncertainty to warrant admission of testimony explaining what the parties meant by the term "Yellow Giant." While Cruncher will have the burden of proving that the term meant something different from what it appears to mean, any evidence it offers will be considered by the trier of fact. (A) is incorrect because reformation is generally available only when a writing incorrectly reflects a valid antecedent agreement, such as where a mistake was made in transcribing the agreement. Here, the writing correctly reflects the antecedent agreement, since the parties agreed to use the words "Yellow Giant"; the problem now lies in determining what was meant by "Yellow Giant." Also, this answer overconfidently states the outcome of the controversy, since Technix may have evidence of its own contradicting Cruncher's. (C) is incorrect on these facts because the president is seeking to explain, not contradict, the terms of the written contract. Before it can be determined that testimony is being offered to contradict the terms of a written agreement, the meaning of the terms must be resolved. Thus, the parol evidence rule does not bar admission of this testimony. (D) is incorrect because the requirements of the Statute of Frauds [U.C.C. 2-201] are satisfied here. The U.C.C. requires only (i) a writing sufficient to indicate that a contract was formed, (ii) a quantity term, and (iii) the signature of the party to be charged. All other terms of the contract, including the meaning of a contract term, can be established by parol evidence without implicating the Statute of Frauds.

\section{Answer to Question 104}

(A) The licensing requirement is constitutional. The state may "within the proper purpose of the exercise of its police powers" require licensing of anyone who deals with the public in general, and the Supreme Court has particularly been very liberal when the state is attempting legislation that is remedial in effect to cure a social evil that exists within the state. (B) is incorrect because the designation of the attorney general does not affect the constitutionality. (C) is wrong because this is a permissible burden (if it is one at all). (D) is wrong because there is no indication that the state is treating nonresident garment makers differently than those residing in the state. (Note also that the Interstate Privileges and Immunities Clause does not protect corporations.)

\section{Answer to Question 105}

(A) It is unlikely that this provision could survive even the traditional rationality test. There is no apparent rational relationship between the classifications of citizens and noncitizens, and particularly residents and nonresidents, and the proper state purpose of discouraging the hiring of illegal aliens. Furthermore, state alienage classifications are suspect and will be upheld only if necessary to promote a compelling state interest. The classification in this case is not necessary because there are less burdensome means available to accomplish the state's purpose. (B) is wrong because the Fourteenth Amendment Privileges and Immunities Clause is limited to rights arising out of national citizenship. (Note that the durational residence requirement, but not the United States citizenship requirement, may violate the Article IV Privileges and Immunities Clause.) (C) is wrong because the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment applies only to federal government action. (D) is wrong because the Tenth Amendment reserves power to the states; it does not include restrictions on state power. 

\section{Answer to Question 106}

(B) The Bible listing is admissible as a family record. Federal Rule of Evidence 803(13) provides a specific exception to the hearsay rule allowing admission of family records, such as family Bibles, genealogies, engravings, etc. A family Bible with a record of births and deaths is exactly the type of document intended by this exception. (A) is incorrect because the inscription concerning Baggs's niece is less than 20 years old. (C) is incorrect because the hearsay exception described above applies to the family Bible. (D) is incorrect because there is no such foundational requirement in the exception to the hearsay rule. The family Bible is considered to have inherent indicia of trustworthiness. The Bible has been properly identified as having belonged to Baggs's family, and there is no reason to consider the inscription untrustworthy.

\section{Answer to Question 107}

(D) Mark and Martha each own an undivided one-half interest because the Statute of Frauds applies. The Statute of Frauds requires that any transfer of an interest in land be in writing. The right of survivorship Taylor and Scott tried to create by their oral agreement is an interest in land. As such, it must be in writing to be enforceable. Furthermore, to create a joint tenancy with right of survivorship, the unities of time, title, interest, and possession must be present; i.e., a tenancy in common cannot be converted to joint tenancy by agreement. Therefore, Taylor and Scott remained tenants in common at their deaths, with each undivided one-half interest passing through their respective estates. (A) is incorrect because reliance on a mistake of law cannot convert a tenancy in common to a joint tenancy, and for Martha to take the entire interest, Scott would have to have a right of survivorship. (B) is incorrect because, as discussed above, Scott and Taylor's mistake as to the operation of law is an insufficient basis to reform the deed. A joint tenancy is not created without the four unities and the use of the specific language required by the jurisdiction. (C) is incorrect because the deaths of Scott and Taylor resulting from the same accident is irrelevant. The deaths were not simultaneous and it would not have mattered if they were. The share of each tenant in common goes to each tenant's heirs, and death resulting from the same accident or simultaneous death would not entitle the other co-tenant to take as if he or she had survived because a tenancy in common is involved.

\section{Answer to Question 108}

(D) The state must demonstrate that the requirement is necessary to advance a compelling state interest. The Equal Protection Clause requires that similarly situated persons not be discriminated against unreasonably. Where a suspect class is involved, it is unreasonable to discriminate unless the government can show that the discrimination is narrowly tailored to achieve a compelling governmental interest. As to state government regulation, alienage is a suspect class. Thus, (D) is correct. (A) is incorrect because it states the wrong test (rational basis). (B) is incorrect because it places the burden on the wrong party (the alien). (C) is incorrect because it states the wrong test (rational basis). This test applies only to laws restricting alien participation in the functioning of the state government.

\section{Answer to Question 109}

(A) The only proposition that must be established is that the gas caused Nyman's death. The storage of highly toxic gas is an activity for which strict liability is imposed. Proposition I. relates to an element required in a strict liability case, while propositions II. and III. relate to additional matters that might be necessary to prove if negligence were the issue. In strict liability the plaintiff need only prove: (i) the existence of an absolute duty on the part of the defendant to make safe; (ii) breach of that duty; (iii) that such breach was the actual and proximate cause of the plaintiff's injury; and (iv) damages. Ultrahazardous or abnormally dangerous activities fall into the strict liability category because they: (i) involve risk of serious harm to persons or property; (ii) cannot be performed without risk of serious harm no matter how much care is taken; and (iii) are not commonly engaged-in activities in the community. The storage of toxic gas is such an ultrahazardous activity. Nyman's personal representative need only prove that the escaping toxic gas was the cause of Nyman's death. It follows that (B), (C), and (D) are incorrect because they state propositions that need not be proved for the plaintiff to recover in a strict liability case.

\section{Answer to Question 110}

(C) The strongest argument for admission of Pullen's testimony concerning the telephone call is that, after hearing Denison speak in chambers, Pullen recognized Denison's voice as that of the person on the telephone. Aural voice identification is not a subject of expert testimony; i.e., lay opinion is sufficient. Familiarity with the voice may be acquired before or after the speaking that is the subject of the identification. Thus, the fact that Pullen became familiar with Denison's voice later, in the judge's chambers, does not disqualify the identification. That identification, coupled with Denison's self-identification during the call, is sufficient to authenticate the telephone conversation. (A) and (B) are wrong because they state requirements for identifying the person called, not the caller. (D) is wrong because self-identification of the caller is insufficient evidence of identity; additional evidence of identity, such as the testimony in $(\mathrm{C})$, is required.

\section{Answer to Question 111}

(B) Drake can be guilty of arson because his failure to put out the fire that he started establishes the malice necessary for arson. Arson at common law consists of the malicious burning of the dwelling of another. All that malice requires is that defendant have acted with the intent or knowledge that the structure would burn, or with reckless disregard of an obvious risk that the structure would burn. Here, it is not enough that Drake accidentally or negligently caused the fire to start. However, since he was the cause of the fire, he had a duty to take reasonable steps to try to prevent it from spreading. His failure to do anything when the fire was probably small enough to put out would suffice as reckless disregard of an obvious risk that the building would burn, which it did. With regard to the dwelling requirement, most states extend the crime of arson to structures other than dwellings, and questions on the MBE testing on other arson issues will often assume without saying that the jurisdiction's arson law applies to other buildings. The requirement that the building be "of another" pertains to possession rather than ownership. Thus, a landlord could be guilty of arson for burning down his own building if his tenants were in possession of it rather than him; hence, (D) is incorrect. (A) is wrong because the malice requirement is not established by the fact that Drake harbored ill will against Teague, and there is no "felony arson" doctrine comparable to the felony murder doctrine. (C) is wrong because, as discussed above, Drake need not have intended to start the building on fire; all that need be shown is a reckless disregard of an obvious risk that the structure would burn.

\section{Answer to Question 112}

(A) Dietz should be found guilty of robbery because his accomplice obtained the wallet by means of force. Robbery consists of (i) a taking (ii) of personal property of another (iii) from the other's person or presence (iv) by force or intimidation (v) with the intent to permanently deprive him of it. Thus, robbery is basically an aggravated form of larceny in which the taking is accomplished by force or threats of force. The force must be used either to gain possession of the property or to retain possession immediately after such possession has been accomplished, but the defendant need not have intended to use force to complete the crime; the only intent required is the intent to permanently deprive the victim of his property. Here, Dietz and Atkins had such an intent, and they were able to carry out that intent in part because Atkins slashed Verner's hand with the knife, incapacitating him. The fact that he did not intend to injure Verner is irrelevant; hence, (C) is wrong. (B) is wrong because Verner's erroneous belief that he was being threatened does not establish the element of threat or intimidation. Dietz's conduct was merely an attempt to distract Verner and did not constitute a threat or intimidation; the fact that Verner's intoxication caused him to believe otherwise does not change that result. (D) is incorrect because the unreasonableness of Verner's belief does not change the fact that Dietz is liable as an accomplice to the robbery by Atkins, since robbery (the use of force) was a foreseeable consequence of the pickpocketing.

\section{Answer to Question 113}

(A) David will probably be required to pay Peterson \$ 105$ under an implied-in-fact contract. An implied-in-fact contract is a contract formed by manifestations of assent other than oral or written language, i.e., by conduct. Even if there is no subjective "meeting of the minds," the parties will be bound if their conduct objectively appears to manifest a contractual intent. Where an offeree silently takes the benefit of offered services with reasonable opportunity to reject them and reason to know that they were offered with the expectation of compensation, the offeree's inaction may constitute an acceptance. [Rest. 2d Contracts $\S 69(1)(a)$ ] Here, David's silence in the face of Professor Peterson's offer and his conduct in staying within earshot of the group is a sufficient objective manifestation of contractual intent for the court to find an implied-in-fact contract. Hence, a court will probably allow Peterson to recover the contract price. (B) is wrong because it states the wrong rationale. The Statute of Frauds would not be applicable even if the cost of the tour were over \$ 500$; the \$ 500$ provision of the Statute of Frauds is applicable only to the sale of goods. (C) is incorrect because it states a quasi-contract remedy. Quasi-contract is not really a contract at all; it is a legal remedy to prevent unjust enrichment where an enforceable contract is not present, and allows the claimant to recover the reasonable value of the benefits that he rendered to the other party. While Peterson probably could pursue a quasi-contract remedy because he rendered services with a reasonable expectation of being compensated, he is not limited to that remedy because he can establish an implied-in-fact contract. Hence, he can recover the contract price for the tour without having to establish that it was a reasonable fee for the lectures. (D) is wrong because, as stated above, David's conduct would be sufficient for a court to find the existence of an implied-in-fact contract here, or, at a minimum to grant a quasicontract remedy.

\section{Answer to Question 114}

(B) The court could find the title marketable by finding that an implied easement for the benefit of Blackacre was created from the existing use when Blackacre was severed from Whiteacre by the sale. The requirement that the seller provide the buyer with marketable title means that the title must be free from questions that present an unreasonable risk of litigation. A significant encroachment constitutes a title defect, regardless of whether an adjacent landowner is encroaching on the seller's land or vice versa. However, under the circumstances in choice (B), a court will be able to avoid the encroachment problem by implying an easement from the existing use (a quasi-easement). If a use exists on the "servient" part of the tract that is reasonably necessary for the enjoyment of the "dominant" part, and a court determines that the parties intended the use to continue after division of the property, an easement will be implied. Given that title will not be marketable otherwise, the court will deem that the parties intended for the use to continue. (A) is wrong because the fact that the law requires a ramp would not prevent the adjacent property owner from bringing a lawsuit to have the encroachment removed. (C) is incorrect because an encroachment of 10 inches is significant enough to make title unmarketable. Whether an encroachment is significant enough to make title unmarketable is ultimately a question of fact; however, structures that encroach an inch or more over the property line are generally found by the courts to be significant encroachments. (D) is incorrect because the type of deed required by the contract does not establish marketability. Also, the fact that a contract calls for a quitclaim deed, which does not contain any covenants for title, does not eliminate the implied warranty to provide marketable title.

\section{Answer to Question 115}

(C) Ned will not recover because Parker did not breach a duty owed to him when he parked the car. This question can be analyzed in terms of either the extent of the duty of care or proximate cause. Where defendant's conduct creates an unreasonable risk of injury to persons in the position of the plaintiff, the general duty of care extends from the defendant to the plaintiff. However, no duty is imposed on a person to take precautions against events that cannot reasonably be foreseen. And in terms of proximate cause, intervening forces that produce unforeseeable results (results not within the increased risk created by defendant's negligence) will be deemed to be unforeseeable and superseding, and thus break the causal connection between the defendant's negligent act and the ultimate injury. Here, Parker's allegedly negligent parking did not increase the risk that Driver would sideswipe his car; Driver's conduct was an unforeseeable intervening force that cuts off Parker's liability for his conduct. (A) is incorrect for two reasons. For breach of a statute to establish negligence per se, plaintiff must show that the statute was designed to prevent the type of harm that occurred, which does not seem to be the case with the fire hydrant ordinance here. Furthermore, proving breach of an applicable statute establishes only duty and breach of duty. Actual and proximate cause must still be established for recovery, and proximate cause is lacking here. (B) is incorrect because the fact that Parker's conduct was a cause in fact of Ned's injury, even assuming that leaving the car there was negligent, does not establish the necessary element of proximate cause. (D) is incorrect because violation of an ordinance may establish negligence per se if the statutory standard is applicable to the situation.

\section{Answer to Question 116}

(B) Byer probably will be required to pay \$ 6,000$ for all but lot 101 . Since the facts stipulate that there was an enforceable contract at \$ 5,000$ as to lot 101 , there was no consideration for Byer's agreeing to pay more for that lot. However, as to the other lots, Ohner's telephone call would act as a revocation of the original offer, and a new offer at \$ 6,000$; Byer's telegram was an acceptance of this new offer and bound Byer to pay the raised price.

\section{Answer to Question 117}

(D) Byer probably will not succeed. Notice to an offeree that the offeror has made an inconsistent contract with a third party operates as a revocation of the offer. (A) is incorrect because there was apparently no consideration given by Byer for Ohner's promise to keep the offer open until June 1 , and hence it too was revocable. (C) is not as good an answer as (D) because it is the notice to the offeree that constitutes the revocation (rather than the inconsistent contract with the third party). 

\section{Answer to Question 118}

(C) Arguably, Byer's telegram on May 2 could reasonably be interpreted as a rejection of Ohner's offer as to all other lots except 101; i.e., having accepted only 101 , he was impliedly rejecting the rest. Once rejected, the offer is terminated and the offeree's power of acceptance is extinguished; thus, the May 6 attempt to accept would be ineffective. None of the other alternatives makes sense. For impossibility of performance in (A) to apply, the impossibility must be "objective"; i.e., the duties could not be performed by anyone. Also, the impossibility must arise after the contract has been entered into. (D) is wrong because a condition precedent must be distinguished from a promise. A condition is the occurrence of an event that will create, limit, or extinguish the absolute duty to perform. In this case, it would probably be determined that the intention of the parties was an exchange of promises. (B) is incorrect because a unilateral mistake in most cases will not prevent formation of a contract. Only mutual mistake going to the heart of the bargain may prevent the formation of the contract.

\section{Answer to Question 119}

(B) Leonard's conviction will be sustained because states can prohibit or regulate conduct in general, and this is true even if the prohibition or regulation happens to interfere with a person's religious practices. The Free Exercise Clause cannot be used to challenge a neutral law of general applicability (such as the law against cruelty to animals) unless it can be shown that the law was motivated by a desire to interfere with religion. [See Church of the Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. Hialeah (1993)] A law that regulates the conduct of all persons, as this statute appears to do, can be applied to prohibit the conduct of a single person even if the person's religious beliefs prohibit him from complying with the law. (A) is incorrect because the constitutional protection of religious beliefs does not require that the belief arise from a traditional, or even an organized, religion. Beliefs in Satan could have constitutional protection. (C) is wrong for the reasons given in the analysis of option (B). (D) is incorrect because the reasonableness of religious beliefs is not a suitable subject for constitutional inquiry. The courts may not, for example, declare a religion to be "false." The courts may inquire into the sincerity of religious belief, but the reasonableness of the belief is not relevant.

\section{Answer to Question 120}

(A) The phone message is admissible because it is an admission by a party-opponent. An admission is a statement made or an act done that amounts to a prior acknowledgment by one of the parties to an action of one of the relevant facts in dispute. The statement may be in writing and need not be against that party's interest at the time it was made. Here, Peters is offering a statement made by Dietrich that is directly relevant to the issue in the lawsuit. The phone message should therefore be ruled admissible. (B) is incorrect. While statements of a declarant's then-existing intent are admissible as an exception to the hearsay rule to allow an inference that the intent was probably carried out, statements of memory or belief are not admissible to prove the truth of the fact remembered or believed. Thus, even if Dietrich left the message shortly after he made the agreement with Peters, it would not be admissible under the state of mind exception to the hearsay rule. (C) is incorrect because the privilege for confidential communications between a husband and wife does not extend to routine communications of a business nature that were not made in confidence. Here, Dietrich gave the message to the switchboard operator to relay to his wife. Thus, the communication was not made in reliance on the intimacy of the marital relationship. (D) is incorrect because the statement is admissible as an admission of a party-opponent, which is not hearsay under the Federal Rules. 

\section{Answer to Question 121}

(A) Patrick will prevail if Hotel's management breached its duty of care by not improving the locks. Innkeepers have a duty to use a high degree of care to aid or assist their guests and to prevent injury to them from third persons. Included in this duty is the duty to take reasonable precautions against foreseeable criminal acts of third parties. If, as stated in (A), Hotel's management had reason to believe the locks were inadequate, it breached its duty of care to Patrick, and this breach caused his injury. (C) is incorrect because the burglary would be a superseding intervening force only if it was unforeseeable. Also, if Hotel's management had reason to believe the locks were inadequate, it is likely that the burglary and assault will be deemed to be a foreseeable risk of the inadequate locks. (B) is incorrect because the fact that innkeepers owe a high degree of care to their guests does not make them strictly liable for their injuries; some breach of that duty of care must be shown. (D) is incorrect because compliance with the statute is not determinative. The statute sets forth a minimum standard of conduct regarding installation of locks in hotel rooms. Despite compliance with this statute, a careful hotel proprietor would be required to take additional precautions if he was or should have been aware of special circumstances; e.g., a history of prior criminal acts despite use of the statutorily mandated locks.

\section{Answer to Question 122}

(A) Patrick is liable for the type of invasion of privacy of intrusion upon plaintiff's private affairs or seclusion. Husband could reasonably expect that what he did in the woman's hotel room would be free from intrusion. Patrick violated Husband's seclusion by listening to the activities in the room. This intrusion would certainly be objectionable to a reasonable person. (D) is wrong because the viability of this cause of action does not depend upon publication by the defendant; the interest protected by this type of invasion of privacy is the plaintiff's right to be let alone, rather than his interest in not having the information disseminated. (B) is wrong because illegality of the defendant's actions is not an element of the prima facie case for this form of invasion of privacy. Even if the eavesdropping is legal, Patrick's conduct would still be an objectionable intrusion upon Husband's private domain. Finally, the fact that Husband may have been engaging in illegal adulterous conduct does not justify a private individual's intrusion on his solitude. (The situation might be different if Patrick were a law enforcement officer acting pursuant to previously obtained judicial authorization.) Thus, (C) is incorrect.

\section{Answer to Question 123}

(D) The gifts are valid under the Rule. Hubert's will created a life estate in Waverly, contingent remainders in the class consisting of Hubert's children (contingent upon their attaining age 30), and contingent remainders in the class consisting of any children of Hubert's children (contingent on their surviving their parent, and the parent dying before attaining age 30). There are two keys to understanding the question. The first is that a will speaks at death, no matter when it was executed. Here, Hubert's will became an effective conveyance only when he died in 1990 . The second key is that the grandchildren (i.e., the children of Allan, Beth, or Carter) do not themselves have to survive to any particular age to take their gifts. The wording of the question is somewhat confusing on this point, but it is clear when read carefully. Since there are two future interests in the question, each must be analyzed separately under the Rule Against Perpetuities. The gift to Hubert's children is a class gift, and the Rule makes class gifts entirely void unless it is certain that the gift will vest or fail as to all members of the class within the perpetuities period. However, it is clear that this will be true here. The three children (Allan, Beth, and Carter) are all alive when the will speaks in 1990. Hence, they are all lives in being. (If Hubert's wife had been pregnant when Hubert died, that child, when born, would also have been considered a "life in being" as of Hubert's death.) The gift is certain to vest as to each of Hubert's children when each reaches age 30 , which is obviously within each's lifetime. Likewise, if one of the children dies before age 30 , his interest will fail; again, that is certain to happen within his or her lifetime. Since this is so, the class gift to the children of Hubert is certain to vest or fail as to each member within "lives in being." The gift is therefore valid under the Rule. It is not even necessary to add the 21-year period as permitted by the Rule. As to the class gift to the grandchildren of Hubert, a similar analysis follows. If any grandchild's interest ever becomes vested, it will do so immediately upon the death of that grandchild's parent (Allan, Beth, or Carter) prior to reaching age 30. Since those three persons are "lives in being" at Hubert's death, the grandchildren's interests are certain to vest or fail in every case at the end of a life in being. Again, it is not necessary to add the 21-year period as permitted by the Rule. (A) is wrong because the time of execution of the will is irrelevant; it is the date of the testator's death that commences the running of the perpetuities period. (B) is wrong for the same reason. (C) is wrong for the reasons discussed above.

\section{Answer to Question 124}

(D) To have a Fourth Amendment right, a defendant must have a reasonable expectation of privacy in the object seized. A person does not have such an expectation in objects held out to the public, such as account records held by a bank. Thus, (D) is correct. (A) is incorrect because a search warrant is not required where the defendant does not have a Fourth Amendment right. (B) is incorrect because Downs did not have a Fourth Amendment right in the records. Also, the period covered by the records was not necessarily overextensive. It could be that Downs was suspected of being involved in bribery for the preceding two years. (C) is incorrect because, even if the facts here presented describe an exigent situation, such a situation is actually an exception to the warrant requirement; and, like the warrant requirement, will not arise unless and until the defendant has a Fourth Amendment right.

\section{Answer to Question 125}

(A) Devon's knowledge that Plummer was about to sit on the chair makes his action a battery. A prima facie case for battery requires an act by defendant that brings about harmful or offensive contact to plaintiff, intent on the part of defendant to do the act, and causation. Here, Devon's act in pulling out Plummer's chair brought about offensive contact to Plummer. The causation element is satisfied not only by direct contact but also by indirect contact. Here, since Devon set in motion the events that brought about the offensive contact, causation exists. The intent element is satisfied if defendant knew with substantial certainty the consequences of his act. Here, if Devon knew that Plummer was about to sit on the chair, he also knew with substantial certainty that Plummer would fall if the chair were moved. Thus, Plummer will prevail on a battery cause of action. (B) is incorrect because Devon's negligence would not suffice for battery, and the only alternative cause of action based on negligence is negligent infliction of emotional distress, which requires that defendant's negligent conduct cause some physical injury to plaintiff. Here, Plummer suffered no physical harm. (C) is incorrect because the prima facie case for battery does not require physical harm to be shown. Even if Plummer cannot prove any actual damages, he will be entitled to a judgment for nominal damages. (D) is incorrect because it merely states Devon's motive for moving the chair. Regardless of the fact that Devon did not have an evil motive or intend to cause injury, he knew with substantial certainty that his conduct would cause an offensive contact to Plummer; this satisfies the intent requirement for battery.

\section{Answer to Question 126}

(B) Where a witness makes a statement not directly relevant to the issues in the case, the rule against impeachment on a collateral matter applies to bar the other side from proving the statement untrue by extrinsic evidence or by a prior inconsistent statement. Here, the actual number of years during which Walters was employed by the roofing company is irrelevant to the genuineness of Daly's signature on the note. Thus, this is a collateral matter, and Daly will not be permitted to impeach Walters on it. (D) then is incorrect. (C) is incorrect, not only because Wilson's testimony is irrelevant to any issue in the case, but also because such testimony is not evidence of a regularly conducted activity. (A) is incorrect. Although the witness is testifying orally about matters contained in a writing (the employment records), the records here are collateral to the issue being litigated. Accordingly, the collateral document exception applies and the best evidence rule is inapplicable.

\section{Answer to Question 127}

(D) The Secretary must distribute \$ 100$ million, because the President's executive order constitutes an attempted exercise of legislative power. Although the Supreme Court has not fully resolved the scope of the President's power over internal affairs, it has held that the President has no power to refuse to spend appropriated funds when Congress has expressly mandated that they be spent. Congress has the power to spend money for the general welfare under Article I, and the President's action here infringes on that power. It follows that (A) and (B) are incorrect. (C) is incorrect because, although it presupposes a less drastic spending cut than (A) or (B), the President may not unilaterally impose even a cut of $10 \%$ when Congress has clearly required the spending of the full amount.

\section{Answer to Question 128}

(B) The outcome will turn on the definition of "value," because Crider, having received his deed after Price, is the junior claimant. His recordation prior to Price will protect Crider's right to Blackacre only if Crider took the deed in good faith and for value. Here, Owen apparently gave the deed to Crider in exchange for a release from the antecedent debt. If the jurisdiction in question considers this "value," Crider will benefit from the recording act because he is a subsequent bona fide purchaser for value, the very person the recording acts seek to protect. (A) is wrong because the form of deed has no effect on bona fide purchaser status. A quitclaim deed merely means the seller is not making any warranties of title. (C) is wrong because whether Price paid value is irrelevant. Price is not the subsequent purchaser. The recording act protects subsequent purchasers, so Price's interest depends on whether Crider benefits from the protection of the act. (D) is wrong because Price's title is good as against anyone except a subsequent bona fide purchaser for value. Thus, unless Crider is shown to qualify for the protection of the recording act, Price's title is good. There is no estoppel component to the recording acts.

\section{Answer to Question 129}

(B) The scenario in (B) provides the best defense because it would enable Green to rescind based on unilateral mistake. Rescission of a contract is available when one party is mistaken about material facts relating to a contract, the mistake adversely affects that party, and the other party knows of the mistake. (A) is wrong because in this case it is the nonmistaken party who is adversely affected. (Note that under choices (A) and (B) it is unclear whether Brown's claim is based on a contract. If it is, the promissory note will be treated as a modification. The modification could be rescinded as discussed above, but there also is an issue of whether there was valid consideration for the modification under the preexisting duty rule. (B) is still the best answer. Under the preexisting legal duty rule, past consideration is valid consideration if there is an honest dispute as to duty owed. There would be no honest dispute under (B) because the nonmistaken party is taking advantage of the mistaken party, but this is not true in (A).) (C) is wrong. The Statute of Frauds is not a problem here because Brown is seeking to enforce the promissory note-which complies with the Statute of Frauds-and not the original agreement. Neither does the preexisting legal duty rule negate the consideration here since there is an exception to the rule for reaffirmations of voidable promises (e.g., promises unenforceable under the Statute of Frauds, promises by infants, promises based on fraud, etc.). (D) is wrong because the statute of limitations would run anew on the note that Brown is trying to enforce, and there is no preexisting legal duty consideration problem because of the exception to the rule for "technical defense bars"- a new promise to pay a legal obligation barred by a technical defense (such as the statute of limitations) is enforceable according to the terms of the new promise.

\section{Answer to Question 130}

(A) Generally, a joint tortfeasor may recover indemnification from another joint tortfeasor where there is a considerable difference in the degree of fault. Here, Ellis, the person whose improper design actually caused Carla's injuries, is a "more wrongful" tortfeasor than Toyco. Thus, Toyco should prevail in its claim against Ellis, which result is reflected in (A). (B) is incorrect because indemnity is not available simply because Toyco and Ellis are joint tortfeasors. (C) is incorrect because Toyco's liability to Carla does not preclude it from obtaining indemnity from Ellis. (D) is incorrect because, even if Toyco was negligent in failing to discover the defect, it may still be entitled to indemnity from the person who negligently designed the game.

\section{Answer to Question 131}

(C) The Due Process Clause has been interpreted to require the prosecution to prove each element of the crime charged beyond a reasonable doubt. The "malice aforethought" element of murder has traditionally been defined as encompassing the absence of provocation engendering a passion. Putting the burden of persuasion as to the existence of provocation and passion on the defendant relieves the prosecution of its burden as to their absence. Therefore, $(\mathrm{C})$ is the best answer and (A) is incorrect on the facts. (B) is incorrect because the presumption of "malice aforethought" is not a legitimate presumption. (D) is incorrect as a matter of law. Presumptions are permitted as long as they are not mandatory for the jury.

\section{Answer to Question 132}

(B) Tommy had a reasonable expectation of privacy, as evidenced by the obscuring of the window so that passersby could not see into the shop. Hence, the officer's search would have to be based on a valid warrant or qualify under one of the exceptions to the warrant requirement. Climbing on the trash cans and peering through a narrow opening eight feet above the pavement would be considered a violation of Tommy's Fourth Amendment rights and not a "plain view" of criminal activity. Since the seizure of the cocaine, mirror, and razor was based on the illegal search, the evidence could not be used by the state. (A) is wrong; absolute certainty of illegal activity is not required for a valid search. A reasonable belief is required. (C) is wrong. The arrest itself is probably invalid, and in any event a search of the next room would not be an area within the immediate control of the defendant. (D) is wrong. Consent to enter the shop is not a consent to search the back room.

\section{Answer to Question 133}

(B) The evidence is admissible as evidence of Wade's possible bias in favor of Dexter. Evidence that a witness is biased tends to show that the witness has a motive to lie. A witness may always be impeached by extrinsic evidence of bias, provided a proper foundation is laid. Bias may be shown by evidence of a business relationship or friendship with a party. Here, the fact that Wade is Dexter's partner in a gambling operation is admissible to impeach Wade for bias. (A) is wrong because the only relevant facet of Wade's character in this case is his veracity, and extrinsic evidence of bad acts is not admissible to impeach a witness. Under the Federal Rules, instances of a witness's conduct may be inquired into on cross-examination if they are probative of truthfulness (i.e., acts of deceit or lying), but extrinsic evidence is not allowed. It is doubtful that running a gambling operation would be found to be probative of Wade's truthfulness. Even if it were, extrinsic evidence would be inadmissible. (C) misstates the law. Criminal conduct can be shown by means other than admission or record of conviction. As discussed above, a party may be impeached by instances of bad or criminal conduct (even if it does not result in a conviction) if it is probative of truthfulness and it is brought out on cross-examination (no extrinsic evidence). (D) is wrong because extrinsic evidence of bias is admissible. (Note, however, that many states require that the bias be inquired into on cross-examination before extrinsic evidence is admissible.)

\section{Answer to Question 134}

(B) Cost of completion minus installments is the correct measure of damages because the facts give us the breach of a construction contract by the builder during construction. In such cases where the builder breaches after partially performing, the owner of the land is entitled to the cost of completion plus reasonable compensation for any delay in performance. Courts generally allow the builder to offset or recover for work performed to date to avoid the unjust enrichment of the owner. Hence, the unpaid installments should be deducted. Although this option does not mention reasonable compensation for delay, it is clearly a more accurate statement of the correct measure of damages than the other options. (A) is wrong because Farquart's damage relates to the cost of having the house completed. This cost could either exceed or be less than the restitution of the installments. If the amount is less, Farquart would be unjustly enriched. (C) is incorrect because damage relates to cost of completion and not market value. The house might have minimal market value in its partially completed state, and to measure damages based on the differences between such minimal value at the time of breach and market value when completed according to specifications could dramatically overstate Farquart's real damages. (D) is incorrect because damages for mental distress are too speculative and are not awarded in a contract situation.

\section{Answer to Question 135}

(C) Farquart's additional expense in providing temporary housing would be the best basis for a claim of consequential damages. In addition to the standard measure of damages, consequential damages may be awarded for further losses resulting from the breach that any reasonable person would have foreseen would occur from a breach at the time of entry into the contract. Temporary housing expenses would have been foreseeable at the time Sawtooth and Farquart entered into the contract. (A) is incorrect because it would be consequential damage to Junior rather than Farquart, because it is Junior who will incur the expense. (B) is incorrect because the fiancee's jilting of Junior is not a foreseeable consequence of the breach. (D) is incorrect because at the time Sawtooth and Farquart entered into the contract, both parties would have reasonably assumed that the house would be built and completed by experienced construction personnel. Farquart's attempt to complete the house himself and the ensuing negligence were not foreseeable.

\section{Answer to Question 136}

(B) The legal effect of the two circumstances is best stated by (B). When a condition or duty of performance (i.e., payment) is broken, the beneficiary of the condition or duty has an election: he may (i) terminate his liability; or (ii) continue under the contract. If he chooses the latter course, he will be deemed to have waived the condition or duty. Since Sawtooth did not terminate his liability to complete construction of the house, but rather treated the contract as ongoing, he is deemed to have waived the delay in payment. Farquart's failure to require a certificate from Builders would be deemed a revocable waiver. At any time Farquart could insist on the certificate before making a monthly payment. Because the certificate represents that the work performed during a particular month met the specifications, Farquart would always retain the right to condition his payment for a particular month on receipt of the certificate. (A) is incorrect because there was no estoppel waiver as to either I. or II. Whenever a party indicates that he is "waiving" a condition before it is to happen, or some performance before it is rendered, and the person addressed detrimentally relies upon such an indication, the courts will hold this to be a binding (estoppel) waiver. Sawtooth never indicated in advance that he was waiving the four monthly payments and there was no detrimental reliance by Farquart. Likewise, Farquart never indicated in advance that he was waiving the certificate requirement and there was no detrimental reliance by Sawtooth. (C) is incorrect because mutual rescission requires an $\boldsymbol{e x}$ press agreement between the parties to rescind. The agreement to rescind is itself a binding contract supported by consideration (the giving up by each party of his right to counterperformance from the other). The parties did not rescind the contract here. (D) is wrong because, as noted above, there was no estoppel waiver as to II. Also, there was never any discharge of Farquart's duty to make the four payments. (Although Farquart's duty might be excused because no work was done between November and February, this does not necessarily follow from the terms of the contract.)

\section{Answer to Question 137}

(D) The outcome of Stone's suit will be governed by whether the power to "sell and convey" is construed to include the power to execute the usual form of deed used to convey realty. If Mitchell lacked the authority to include covenants for title, Rogers will probably not be bound by those covenants. (A) is wrong because the deed included covenants. It may be slightly relevant on the issue of how the power of attorney should be construed, but the outcome of the case will not be governed by this determination. (B) is wrong for a couple of reasons. Covenants for title are not like real covenants; they are not characterized as personal or running with the land. Covenants for title are either present or future. Even if the terminology of personal or running with the land were used, (B) would be incorrect because the suit concerns the original parties; thus, whether the covenant runs with the land would be irrelevant. (C) is wrong because bona fide purchaser status is irrelevant to the enforcement of covenants for title. This status is important mostly for purposes of the recording statute.

\section{Answer to Question 138}

(A) The court should dismiss the action because Midwest cannot show that any injury it allegedly suffered will be remedied by a decision enjoining performance of the Great Plains contract. Even if a federal court has jurisdiction over the subject matter of a case, it will not decide a constitutional challenge to a government action unless the party challenging the action has "standing" to raise the constitutional issue, i.e., a concrete stake in the outcome of the controversy. This requires plaintiff to show an injury in fact-caused by the government-that will be remedied by a decision in its favor. Here, Midwest cannot establish that whatever injury it might have suffered by having its bid rejected will be remedied by an injunction preventing Great Plains from performing its contract with the government; hence, it does not have standing to bring this action. (B) is incorrect because it is too broad; even in the absence of express constitutional limitations, the government is restricted by the Bill of Rights in the exercise of its contracting power. (C) is wrong because Midwest does not have standing to raise a claim on behalf of minorities potentially affected by the waiver. Even if the court were to consider the merits of the case, the government, while it might have had to show a compelling government interest to institute its affirmative action policies, would not have to show a compelling interest to suspend the policies. (D) is wrong because Midwest does not have standing to assert a violation of its rights in an action to enjoin another party's performance of a contract with the government.

\section{Answer to Question 139}

(B) Under pure comparative negligence, the plaintiff may recover no matter how great her negligence. In this case, Phyllis has suffered damages of \$ 100,000$. Because she was $40 \%$ negligent, she may recover only \$ 60,000$ ( \$ 100,000$ less \$ 40,000$ ). Therefore, (B) is correct, and (A) is wrong. Absent a statute, damages are not reduced or mitigated because of benefits received from collateral sources (e.g., health insurance). Thus, Phyllis's receipt of \$ 10,000$ under her insurance plan does not diminish her recovery. (C) is therefore wrong. Andrew and Brett are jointly and severally liable for Phyllis's injuries because their negligent acts combined to proximately cause an indivisible injury to Phyllis. Because Andrew and Brett are jointly and severely liable, Phyllis may recover the entire \$ 60,000$ from Andrew. Thus, (D) is wrong.

\section{Answer to Question 140}

(A) Ben, who is apparently a purchaser at arm's length, had ample opportunity to inspect the property and discover the conduit. The law will not protect a party in Ben's situation who failed to protect himself. Owen, in the absence of a fiduciary relationship with Ben or of any affirmative representations that Owen knows or discovers to have been false, has no duty to disclose the existence of the conduit except (in some jurisdictions) if he knows that Ben is laboring under a misapprehension as to a basic assumption and the act of nondisclosure is made in bad faith. The facts do not support either of these exceptions. It does not appear that Owen acted in bad faith, particularly because Owen permitted an inspection and Ben had ample opportunity to discover the truth. Furthermore, it does not appear that Ben will be unable to build the high-rise simply because of the presence of the conduit. (B) is incorrect because Ben's purpose is not irrelevant: if Owen knew about Ben's purpose, Owen may have a duty to disclose any fact that would preclude that purpose. (C) is incorrect because the existence of the conduit does not make title unmarketable. (D) is incorrect because nothing in the facts indicates that Ben could not build the high-rise on the property despite the existence of the conduit; there are no facts indicating that Ben will experience grossly excessive costs in attempting to do so; and the existence of the conduit, which was discoverable, is not the sort of unforeseeable supervening event that would give rise to a frustration defense.

\section{Answer to Question 141}

(B) Burglary requires a breaking and entering with the intent to commit a felony therein. Because what Donaldson intended to do when he broke in was not a crime, it cannot be said that he entered with the intent to commit a felony. For this reason, he should be acquitted of burglary. It follows that (B) is correct and (C) is incorrect. (D) is incorrect. While the fact that Donaldson was unable to retrieve the exams would not have been a defense to the burglary charge, the decisive fact in this case involves legal impossibility, not factual impossibility. (A) is incorrect because the crime of burglary would have been complete at the moment of breaking and entering with intent to commit a felony therein. However, because looking at exam questions was not a crime, Donaldson could not be convicted of either burglary or attempted burglary.

\section{Answer to Question 142}

(C) Martha will lose unless she was in the "zone of danger" with Sue. Under the traditional approach for negligent infliction of emotional distress, one of the elements for recovery by a bystander is that she must have been within the "zone of danger" or "target zone" of defendant's negligent conduct. Unless Martha was crossing the street with Sue and therefore in the "zone of danger," she will not recover. Thus, (A) is incorrect. (The modern "foreseeability" approach would permit Martha to recover even though she was outside the "zone of danger"- her relationship to the person injured and her presence at the scene would establish foreseeability under this approach.) (B) is wrong even though severe shock to the nervous system may be a sufficient physical injury; Martha will lose because of the "zone of danger" requirement. (D) is incorrect because Martha's relationship to Sue is not relevant under the traditional "zone of danger" approach.

\section{Answer to Question 143}

(B) The testimony of Watts should be admitted as a statement to a physician made for purposes of diagnosis or treatment. The Federal Rules allow the admission of statements not only of past symptoms and medical history, but also of the cause or source of the condition as reasonably pertinent to diagnosis or treatment. This is an exception to the hearsay rule. (A) is incorrect because this is not a statement of present bodily condition which falls under a different exception to the hearsay rule. (C) is incorrect because, as explained above, this testimony is admissible under an exception to the hearsay rule. (D) is incorrect because this hearsay exception does not require unavailability of the declarant.

\section{Answer to Question 144}

(A) If a law burdens a fundamental right, the state must demonstrate that the law is necessary to promote a compelling state interest. In all other cases, a law is valid if it rationally relates to a legitimate end of government. Where the "rational basis" test applies, the law is presumed valid and the burden is on the challenging party to prove its invalidity. The statute at issue infringes on Zeller's right of parental custody, which is almost certainly a fundamental right. Thus, the state bears the burden of showing that this statute is needed to promote a compelling state interest. (A) is correct. (B) and (D) are wrong because showing a rational relationship is not enough since a fundamental right is involved. (C) and (D) are wrong because the burden is on the state, not Zeller.

\section{Answer to Question 145}

(D) A conviction for felony murder requires that the defendant have had the intent to commit the underlying felony. Here, because Dunbar believed that the \$ 200$ rightfully belonged to her, she did not have the intent to permanently deprive Stone of his money. Thus, Dunbar lacked the intent required for conviction of the underlying felony, and she cannot be found guilty of felony murder. (A) is wrong because it fails to account for the necessary intent to commit the underlying felony. (B) is wrong because taking Balcom to the store did not in and of itself create a risk of death. Also, (B), like (A), fails to account for the necessary intent to commit the underlying felony. $(\mathrm{C})$ is wrong because the required mental state for felony murder (i.e., intent to commit the underlying felony) has nothing to do with knowledge that Balcom was armed. 

\section{Answer to Question 146}

(C) Conviction as an accessory requires that the defendant have given aid, counsel, or encouragement with the intent that an offense be committed or, in some cases, knowing that she was contributing to the commission of a crime. If Dunbar neither planned to use force nor knew that Balcom was armed, and she believed that the \$ 200$ was rightfully hers, then she cannot be said to have aided, counseled, or encouraged Balcom with the intent that an offense be committed, or knowing that she was contributing to the commission of a crime. (A) and (B) are incorrect because they ignore the encouragement and intent necessary for conviction as an accessory. (D) is incorrect because, even if Dunbar was only exercising self-help, this alternative does not address her state of mind regarding the charge of being an accessory to murder.

\section{Answer to Question 147}

(D) The accused in a criminal case may introduce evidence of a pertinent character trait because it may tend to show that he did not commit the crime charged. But here, evidence of Duncan's character for truth is not pertinent to a charge of a violent crime (aggravated assault). (A) is wrong because the character evidence is admissible only if it is pertinent to the charged crime. (B) is wrong because Duncan's credibility is not in issue, since he did not testify. (C) is wrong because in a criminal trial such evidence may be admitted, if pertinent, at the initiative of the accused.

\section{Answer to Question 148}

(B) If the decision is for Andy, it will be because the right to take minerals is an incident of a fee simple interest. The owner of a defeasible fee has the same right to possession and privileges of use as the owner of a fee simple absolute. Only unconscionable conduct by the owner that substantially reduces the value of the land could possibly be enjoined by the person who would take the land should the current owner's estate terminate. (A) is incorrect because Bob has an executory interest. (C) is an incorrect statement of the law. A person in possession (e.g., a life tenant), absent other circumstances, does not have the right to exploit mineral resources. (D) is incorrect because it is irrelevant. Andy's mental state or "good faith" or lack thereof has no bearing on his right to take minerals from his fee estate.

\section{Answer to Question 149}

(D) Norris will not prevail if Josephs had reasonable grounds for his statement. As a former employer responding to queries of a prospective employer about a job applicant, Dr. Josephs has a qualified privilege. Such a privilege is not absolute; it exists only if exercised in a reasonable manner and for a proper purpose. The privilege may be lost if the speaker made a statement not within the scope of the privilege or if the speaker acted with "malice" (i.e., knowledge that the statement was untrue or with reckless disregard as to its truth or falsity). If Josephs had reasonable grounds for his belief, he was not acting with malice. (A) is incorrect because of the reasons stated in the analysis of option (D). A statement of opinion may be actionable if it appears to be based on specific facts which, if expressly stated, would be defamatory. However, because of the qualified privilege, Dr. Josephs will not be liable for his mistake as long as his belief was reasonable. (B) is incorrect because the fact that the statement was in a category that is slander per se (i.e., adversely reflecting on Norris's abilities to practice her profession) goes to whether Norris must plead special damages. It does not, however, undermine the qualified privilege. (C) is incorrect because permission to make inquiry is not tantamount to consent to be defamed. 

\section{Answer to Question 150}

(D) Marketable title is one that is free from reasonable doubt in fact or in law. Here, there is confusion because the building restrictions apply to all the lots shown on the map, but the parcel at issue is not one of the 10 numbered lots. Thus, it is unclear whether the parcel is subject to restrictions that will reduce the uses of the lot or its market value. Thus, (D) is correct. (A) is wrong because it is not clear that the undesignated parcel is not subject to the subdivision restrictions. It was included on the map and the restrictions apply to "all lots shown." (B) is wrong because even though it is not one of the 10 lots, it may be bound by the restrictions. Since this is unclear, title is not marketable. (C) is wrong because there could be marketable title without government approval.

\section{Answer to Question 151}

(C) Venus is entitled to the contract price for the grapes delivered and accepted, but Tipple is entitled to cover-to purchase grapes at the market price prevailing at the time of performance and to deduct any increase over the Venus-Tipple contract price. (A) is wrong because Tipple is entitled to cover, and does not "waive" the breach by accepting a part performance. (B) is wrong because the price for the grapes delivered is the contract price, not the prevailing market price. (D) is wrong because Venus is entitled to payment for the grapes she delivered, and would be able to enforce her claim through litigation, if necessary.

\section{Answer to Question 152}

(C) Wall's testimony is admissible as prior identification by the witness. Under the Federal Rules of Evidence, a statement of prior identification by the witness of another person is nonhearsay. Thus, (A) is incorrect. (B) is incorrect because Wall is testifying at the trial and is subject to cross-examination. Thus, Dray's right of confrontation is not violated. (D) is incorrect because past recollection recorded is an exception to the hearsay rule, and the statement here at issue is nonhearsay. Also, past recollection recorded involves use of a writing made when the events were fresh in the mind of the witness. There is no such writing involved here.

\section{Answer to Question 153}

(A) The modification is fully enforceable. Although there was no consideration for Barnes's promise to take only half of the bargained-for production, none is required because this is a contract for the sale of goods and hence subject to U.C.C. section 2-209(1), which provides that a good faith modification is enforceable regardless of lack of consideration. Hence, (C) is wrong. (B) and (D) are wrong because they imply that the original agreement was not fully enforceable. The agreement between Barnes and Stevens is basically an output contract and is fully enforceable under the U.C.C. Although generally the subject matter of a contract must be definite and certain, an agreement to buy or sell all of one's requirements or output is deemed capable of being made certain by reference to objective, extrinsic facts. It is assumed that the parties will act in good faith.

\section{Answer to Question 154}

(D) Discharge of contractual duties by impossibility must be objective; i.e., the duties could not be performed by anyone. Generally, physical incapacity of a person necessary to effectuate the contract only excuses performance where the services are deemed "unique." That would not be the case here. Stevens's allergy to the bees does not constitute objective impossibility of performance because his duties are delegable. Hence, his failure to deliver is not excused. (B) is wrong because his performance would be excused only if the parties had entered into a contract for personal services. (A) is wrong because Stevens promised to supply at least $100 \mathrm{lbs}$. per month. (C) is wrong because such notice would not excuse a breach.

\section{Answer to Question 155}

(C) The basis for finding that the bank's due process rights have been violated is that it should have received notice through personal service or by mail. When the government seeks to use a judicial or administrative process to take or terminate property interests, it must give notice to those persons whose property interests may be taken by that process. The form of notice must be reasonably designed to insure that those persons will in fact be notified of the proceedings. Here, the bank had recorded its mortgage and presumably could have been notified by mail that the property was being seized by the government. Being deprived of the opportunity to protect its interest in the property violated the bank's due process rights under the three-part test of Mathews $v$. Eldridge. Mathews lists three criteria that the courts should weigh in determining what constitutes fair process: (i) the importance of the individual interest involved, (ii) the value of specific procedural safeguards to that interest, and (iii) the governmental interest in fiscal and administrative efficiency. Here, the Bank has an important property right that is being terminated, the procedure of publishing a general notice was not sufficient to safeguard its interests, and the government interest in efficiency would not have been overburdened by requiring notice by mail to parties with a recorded interest in the property. (A) is wrong because it is too broad. Under Mathews, the government is not required to provide personal notice to all parties if it is not feasible, nor is it required to provide a preseizure hearing if exigent circumstances make it impracticable. (B) is incorrect because even when a private party is seeking to use a judicial or administrative process, state action is involved and the Due Process Clause must be satisfied; hence, notice to a record mortgage holder would be required even if a private party were seeking to seize the property through judicial means. (D) is incorrect because the state's characterization of the mortgagee's interest is not critical; the mortgagee has legal rights to the property that are protected by the Due Process Clause, regardless of how the rights are characterized.

\section{Answer to Question 156}

(C) The court should deny Darren's motion if it finds that he voluntarily consented to the search that revealed the drugs. The police may conduct a valid warrantless search of an area otherwise protected by the Fourth Amendment if they have a voluntary and intelligent consent to do so. The scope of the search is governed by the scope of the consent, but consent extends to all areas to which a reasonable person under the circumstances would believe it extends. The fact that a defendant has been placed under arrest does not mean that he cannot otherwise give valid consent to a search, and the search that led to the discovery of the cocaine in this case was within the scope of the consent that Darren provided. Thus, he has no Fourth Amendment grounds to exclude evidence of the cocaine. (A) is wrong because the fact that Darren was arrested did not mean that his consent was not voluntary. Whether consent is voluntary is judged by the totality of the circumstances. He does not necessarily need to be told that he has a right to withhold consent or be informed of the specific items being sought in the search. As long as his consent was not the product of express or implied coercion, it will be valid. (B) is incorrect even though it is a true statement. After making a lawful arrest of the occupant of an automobile, the police may conduct a warrantless search of the passenger compartment of the automobile but may not search the trunk. Here, however, the search of the trunk was based on Darren's consent rather than as incident to his arrest. (D) is incorrect. The lesser expectation of privacy in vehicles permits the police to search a vehicle without a warrant if they have probable cause to believe that the vehicle contains contraband or evidence of a crime. However, the facts in this question do not indicate that Officer Jones had probable cause to search the trunk of Darren's car. The more certain basis for upholding the validity of the search is the consent given by Darren.

\section{Answer to Question 157}

(B) Defendant is guilty of larceny because he had the intent to deprive the victim permanently of his car at the time of the taking. Neither victim's fraudulently procured consent nor defendant's later return of the car negates the larceny. (A) is wrong because, since the defendant intended to return the car within a reasonable time and, at the time of the taking, had a substantial ability to do so, his unauthorized borrowing of the car does not constitute larceny. (C) is wrong because the elements of false pretenses have not been met. False pretenses involves the obtaining of title to the property of another by an intentional false statement with intent to defraud the owner. Here, since defendant did not get title, it cannot be false pretenses. (D) is wrong because no conversion occurred. For embezzlement to have occurred, the defendant who was in legal possession of the car would have actually had to convert it for his own gain. Returning the car within a reasonable time would not constitute embezzlement.

\section{Answer to Question 158}

(A) The testimony should be admissible as sufficiently authenticated. Where the identity of the speaker of an oral statement is important, authentication as to the speaker's identity is required. A statement made during a telephone conversation may be authenticated by a party to the call who testifies that: (i) he recognized the other party's voice; (ii) the speaker had knowledge of certain facts that only a particular person would have; or (iii) he called a certain person's telephone number, and a voice answered, "This is (the person whose number was called)." Here, the identity of the person with whom Jones spoke on the telephone is important because the speaker admitted that his horse caused the damage. Thus, authentication is required. Because Jones called the listed phone number for Smith, and the answering voice identified itself as Smith, authentication is proper under (iii) above. (B) is incorrect because the accuracy of phone books is not an accurately verifiable fact or a matter of common knowledge. (C) is incorrect because, as noted above, familiarity with the speaker's voice is only one means of authentication. (D) is incorrect because there is no requirement of corroboration by the speaker.

\section{Answer to Question 159}

(A) Photographs are admissible only if identified by a witness as a portrayal of certain facts relevant to the issue and verified by the witness as a correct representation of those facts. The witness who identifies the photograph need only be familiar with the scene or object that is depicted. It is not necessary to call the photographer to authenticate the photograph. Jones, as the owner of the cornfield, is familiar with the field that is depicted. Thus, Jones may testify to the photograph as an accurate portrayal of the condition of the field after the damage was done. (B) is incorrect because, if the photograph accurately depicts the damage, the photograph need not have been taken within a week after the occurrence. The fact that it was taken within a week does not establish that it was an accurate portrayal of the damage to the field. (C) is incorrect because, as noted above, it is not necessary to call the photographer. (D) is incorrect because, as long as the photograph is properly authenticated, it is admissible.

\section{Answer to Question 160}

(C) State laws based on alienage are subject to strict scrutiny, meaning that a compelling state interest must be shown to justify the disparate treatment. However, if the law discriminates against alien participation in the self-governance process, the "rationality" test is applied. Here, Clovis's application for tuition assistance does not relate to participation in the governmental process, thus the strict scrutiny test applies. (B) is incorrect, because it is based on the assumption that the "rationality" test is appropriate. (C) is the only answer that addresses the fact that the state must demonstrate a compelling interest to justify the restriction. It follows that (A) is incorrect. (D) is incorrect because aliens are excluded from the protection of the Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV.

\section{Answer to Question 161}

(C) Partition and cross-easements is the best approach because the holder of an easement has the right to use a tract of land (called the servient tenement) for a special purpose, but has no right to possess and enjoy the tract of land. Typically, easements are created to give their holder the right of access over a tract of land. An easement is deemed appurtenant when the right of special use benefits the holder in his physical use or enjoyment of another tract of land. For an easement appurtenant to exist, there must be two tracts of land. The dominant tenement has the benefit of the easement, and the servient tenement is subject to the easement right. One consequence of appurtenance is that the benefit passes with transfers of the benefited land, regardless of whether the easement is mentioned in the conveyance. Partition is necessary to create the required two tracts of land. (A) is incorrect because a covenant not to partition is personal to the parties and thus subsequent owners will not be bound by the covenant. It is also wrong because under the principles of the Rule Against Restraints on Alienation, the courts will enforce prohibitions against partition by any one co-tenant only if the restriction is to last for a reasonable time. (B) is wrong because, as noted above, easements appurtenant require two tracts of land. As long as the strip remains undivided, a new neighbor, as a tenant-in-common, would have the right to partition the strip and thus terminate the cross-easement. (D) is incorrect because a trust in perpetuity would violate the Rule Against Restraints on Alienation. The effect of the trust would be to create a disabling restraint.

\section{Answer to Question 162}

(B) Petrone will prevail if the cement dust constituted an unreasonable interference. For a private nuisance to be actionable, defendant's conduct must amount to a substantial, unreasonable interference with plaintiff's use and enjoyment of property. The operative language in the choice is "interfered unreasonably," and in most MBE nuisance questions such language usually can be found in the correct choice. (A) is incorrect because, even though a balancing test is sometimes used in nuisance cases, mere increased costs is not a sufficient justification to allow continued unreasonable interference with plaintiff's rights. (C) is incorrect because the number of individuals affected is not determinative of whether a nuisance exists. (D) is similarly incorrect; conformity to general methods in the industry will not preclude Silo from being liable for nuisance.

\section{Answer to Question 163}

(D) Federal courts are barred from rendering advisory opinions. The legislation here calls for a federal court to transmit to the head of a federal agency an opinion regarding the proper disbursement of federal funds, and the agency head is not required to follow the opinion. This would be an advisory opinion. (A) is incorrect because it fails to consider the necessity for a case and controversy prior to the exercise of federal judicial power. (B) may be a true statement, but the rendition of advisory opinions by a federal court is not a permissible method to settle disputes involving the spending of federal monies. (C) is incorrect because the Eleventh Amendment pertains to suits brought against a state by citizens of that or any other state. Such a suit is not at issue here. 

\section{Answer to Question 164}

(A) The credibility of an expert witness may be attacked by cross-examining him as to: (i) his general knowledge of the field in which he is claiming to be an expert; and (ii) his particular knowledge of the facts upon which his opinion is based. Pine's question on cross-examination relates to Wall's general knowledge of the field of chemistry. This bears directly on the weight to be given Wall's testimony. Thus, (A) is correct. (C) is incorrect because any determination of Wall's qualifications as an expert does not preclude an attack on his credibility or on the weight to be given the opinion. (B) and (D) are incorrect because the question relates to neither Wall's truthfulness nor his character.

\section{Answer to Question 165}

(A) Because stopping a car is a seizure for Fourth Amendment purposes, police generally may not stop a car unless they have at least a reasonable suspicion that a law has been violated. However, even absent that suspicion, police may set up roadblocks to stop cars if (i) the cars are stopped on the basis of some neutral, articulable standard, and (ii) the stops are designed to serve a purpose closely related to a particular problem arising from automobiles and their mobility. [See Indianapolis v. Edmund (2000)] The use of a checkpoint to detect evidence of ordinary criminal wrongdoing unrelated to use of cars or highway safety, such as the conduct here, was improper and thus the marijuana would be inadmissible under the exclusionary rule. (B) is wrong because if the car had been properly stopped, the use of the flashlight would not have been improper. (C) is wrong because the established police plan cannot overcome the constitutional objection to the random stopping. (D) is wrong because the stopping of the car was improper. If it had been proper, the subsequent search would have been proper since it would have been based on probable cause.

\section{Answer to Question 166}

(C) Hunko is likely to prevail because of the preexisting duty rule. At common law, a modification of a contract required consideration because the parties were under a preexisting legal duty to perform. Since there was no consideration for the modification, Adman is not entitled to the \$ 2,000$. (B) would be correct if the U.C.C. applied, but it does not apply to this fact situation. (A) is wrong; the parol evidence rule does not apply to subsequent modifications. (D) is wrong. It is a true statement but it is not the reason Hunko will prevail.

\section{Answer to Question 167}

(D) Judgment could be for either Purvis or Rand, because there is a split of authority as to whether a recorded deed, obtained from a grantor who had no title at that time, but who afterwards obtains title, is constructive notice to a subsequent purchaser from the same grantor. Thus, the answer to this question turns on whether the deed from Vine to Purvis constitutes constructive notice to Rand. (A) is incorrect because it does not address the issue of Rand's notice of the prior deed. (B) is incorrect because of the possibility that the deed to Purvis should have put Rand on notice of Purvis's claim. (C) is incorrect because it does not address the issue of notice.

\section{Answer to Question 168}

(B) The rehabilitation will most likely be permitted to rebut testimony of Willie's perjury conviction. Under Federal Rule 608(a), a witness can be rehabilitated with evidence of his good reputation for truthfulness after the character of the witness for truthfulness has been attacked by "opinion or reputation evidence or otherwise." The commentary to 608 specifically states that impeachment through a prior conviction is covered by the "or otherwise" provision and therefore will give rise to rehabilitation through reputation for truthfulness evidence. (A) and (D) are wrong because the commentary to 608 specifically states that impeachment through bias does not allow rehabilitation with reputation for truthfulness evidence. (C) is possible. It could be argued that the impeachment in (C) qualifies under the "or otherwise" provision. (C) is not, however, as good an answer as (B), where the rehabilitation through good reputation evidence would clearly be allowed.

\section{Answer to Question 169}

(D) This question involves spoken defamation (slander). Ordinary slander is not actionable in the absence of pleading and proof of special damages. The defamation here does not fall within one of the slander per se categories (adverse reflection on plaintiff's abilities in his profession, loathsome disease, crime involving moral turpitude, unchastity of a woman). Thus, Poe will not prevail without a showing of special damages. (A) is incorrect because it implies that Poe can prevail without proof of special damages. (C) is incorrect because proof that the defendant knew of the falsity of the defamatory statement is not required in cases involving a private person plaintiff and a matter of private concern. (B) is incorrect because "extreme and outrageous conduct" is part of the prima facie case for intentional infliction of emotional distress, not for defamation.

\section{Answer to Question 170}

(A) Extreme and outrageous conduct is an element of the prima facie case for intentional infliction of emotional distress. Because Kane's conduct was extreme and outrageous, intentional, and likely caused Poe severe distress, Poe will probably prevail. (B) is incorrect because mere intrusion on the plaintiff's property does not constitute intentional infliction of emotional distress. (C) is incorrect because physical injury is not required to recover for this tort. (D) is incorrect because, even if Poe still owed Store for the merchandise, this would not justify extreme and outrageous methods of bill collection. Thus (A) is the best answer.

\section{Answer to Question 171}

(B) The requisite intent for intentional torts (such as battery) is satisfied if the actor knows with substantial certainty that the consequences of his conduct will result. Here, by slamming the door shut, Poe set in motion a force that brought about harmful contact to Kane. (A) is wrong because a request to leave the property would not have justified commission of the battery. Generally, one may use reasonable force to prevent the commission of a tort against his property, if use of force is preceded by a request to desist. Kane was not engaged in the commission of a tort against Poe's property. Thus, Poe's use of force was not justified, with or without a request to leave the property. (C) is wrong because, although Kane's conduct undoubtedly did trigger Poe's response, there are no circumstances indicating justification for such a response. (D) is wrong because, as explained above, Kane was not committing a tort against Poe's property so as to justify the use of force.

\section{Answer to Question 172}

(A) Rimm can be convicted of murder because the way Rimm employed the firearm was sufficient to fulfill the "malice" requirement for murder. Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought. Malice aforethought may be express or implied. In addition to obvious malice situations where there is intention to kill, malice is implied where there is: (i) intent to inflict great bodily injury; (ii) reckless indifference to an unjustifiably high risk to human life (also called acting with "an abandoned and malignant heart"); or (iii) felony murder situations. Here, Rimm's firing of the gun when aimed slightly to the side of Hill in an enclosed room (where ricochet was likely) constituted acting with reckless disregard of an unjustifiably high risk to human life. Rimm's malice is thus implied. (B) is incorrect because the provocation that would reduce murder to voluntary manslaughter is not present in the facts. (C) is incorrect because Rimm's activities could be found to be more dangerous than "criminal negligence." (D) is incorrect. Although Hill's conduct of aiming a pistol at Rimm and firing could constitute assault with a deadly weapon, the more serious crime of which Rimm can be convicted is murder, because Hill was killed by Rimm's reckless conduct.

\section{Answer to Question 173}

(C) The statute will probably be found to violate the First Amendment because it is overbroad. The state can adopt a specific definition of obscenity applying to materials sold to minors, even though the material might not be obscene in terms of an adult audience. However, government may not prohibit the sale or distribution of material to adults merely because it is inappropriate for children. Here, there is no indication that the state has attempted less restrictive means of keeping minors from the objectionable video games, such as requiring arcade operators to put these games in a limited access area and monitor their use. While an outright ban on these games may be the most certain means of denying minors access to them, the denial of adult access to them indicates that the statute will probably be found unconstitutional. (A) is incorrect even though it is a true statement. As indicated above, a statute designed to protect minors must be narrowly drawn to avoid a First Amendment violation. (B) is incorrect because the fact that the statute precisely defines the content that is prohibited indicates only that it probably is not unconstitutionally vague; it does not affect its overbreadth problem. (D) is wrong because, as indicated above, restrictions on materials available to minors do not necessarily have to satisfy the constitutional test for obscenity. In addition, choice (D) misstates the test: the element of serious social value is determined by a national standard, rather than community standards.

\section{Answer to Question 174}

(C) Wren's testimony is inadmissible hearsay because it is an out-of-court statement by the declarant (Dent) offered to prove that Dent's wife had driven through a red light, and no hearsay exceptions apply here. (A) is wrong because Dent is not a party to the litigation, and the husband-wife relationship does not suffice to allow the use of the statement against his wife as a vicarious admission. (B) is wrong because there is no indication that Dent is unavailable as a witness, which is required for the statement against interest exception to apply. (D) is incorrect because Dent's statement was a statement of fact, rather than opinion; further, even if it were opinion, that would not make it inadmissible if it otherwise qualified as an admission.

\section{Answer to Question 175}

(C) Judgment should be for Jose. Luis, by quitclaim deed, conveyed to Jose his future interest in Blackacre; technically, it is an executory interest. When Eugenia died survived by a husband and no children, Luis would have taken title to Blackacre pursuant to Ortega's will. However, because of the quitclaim deed, Jose takes title to the property. (A) is incorrect because no after-acquired title is involved; Luis had his future interest from the moment of Ortega's death, and that is what his deed transferred. (B) is incorrect because, although it is true that Jose took nothing under Ortega's will, Luis chose to convey his interest in Blackacre to Jose, as permitted by the applicable statute. (D) is incorrect because after-acquired title is inapplicable to these facts. Moreover, the after-acquired title doctrine applies to conveyances by warranty deed. The conveyance here was effected by quitclaim deed.

\section{Answer to Question 176}

(A) In single delivery contracts, the buyer can reject goods for any defect in the goods, even if the breach is not material. Here, the ties sent by Kravat were nonconforming goods. Thus, Clothier properly rejected the ties delivered on June 3. (B) is incorrect because even if Kravat had notified Clothier that the ties were shipped as an accommodation, this would merely be a counteroffer, and Clothier would not have been obligated to accept the ties. (C) is incorrect because acceptance of an offer by shipment of nonconforming goods results in a breach of the contract, giving the buyer the right to reject. (D) is incorrect because, after rejection of goods in his possession, the buyer's obligation is to hold the goods with reasonable care at the seller's disposition for a time sufficient to permit the seller to remove them. The buyer is not obligated to promptly return the goods to the seller in order to preserve his remedies.

\section{Answer to Question 177}

(C) Where a buyer has rejected goods because of defects, the seller may, within the time originally provided for performance, cure by giving reasonable notice of intention to do so and making a new tender of conforming goods, which the buyer must then accept. Kravat took all of the steps necessary to cure. Consequently, Clothier's rejection of the ties tendered on June 30 was improper. It follows that (A) is incorrect. (B) is incorrect because Kravat's prompt dispatch of a telegram on June 4, indicating his intention to cure the defect, does not indicate a clear unwillingness or inability to perform, as is required for anticipatory repudiation. (D) is incorrect because modification of the contract is not at issue here. By curing the defective delivery, Kravat is simply performing according to the terms of the contract.

\section{Answer to Question 178}

(A) Deanna is not guilty of larceny of the computer because her mistake prevented her from having the requisite mens rea for larceny. Larceny requires an intent to permanently deprive another of her interest in the property taken. Deanna did not have such an intent because she believed that the computer was her own and that Vanessa had no possessory interest in it. Therefore, she did not have the intent required for larceny. $(\mathrm{B})$ is wrong because Deanna's mistake need not have been reasonable. When mistake is offered to negate the existence of general intent or malice, it must be a reasonable mistake. However, any mistake of fact, reasonable or unreasonable, is a defense to a specific intent crime, and larceny is a specific intent crime. (C) is wrong because, as stated above, she did not have the intent to deprive Vanessa of Vanessa's computer; her mistake negates such an intent. (D) is incorrect because the "continuing trespass" doctrine is inapplicable. While larceny generally requires that the intent to deprive another person of her interest in the property must have existed at the moment of the taking of the property, the continuing trespass doctrine provides that if a defendant takes property with a wrongful state of mind but without the intent to steal, and later forms the intent to steal it, the trespass involved in the initial wrongful taking is regarded as "continuing" and the defendant is guilty of larceny. However, this doctrine has no application if the defendant's initial taking of the property, although trespassory, was not motivated by a wrongful state of mind. Here, Deanna took Vanessa's computer as a result of an innocent mistake. Even if she decides to keep the computer, she will not be guilty of larceny because her initial taking was done with an innocent state of mind.

\section{Answer to Question 179}

(B) Walter's testimony is admissible to show the effect of the statement on Dent's state of mind. A statement is hearsay if it is offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted in the statement. If the statement is offered for another purpose, it is not considered a hearsay statement. Statements offered for the purpose of showing the effect on the listener are generally not classified as hearsay. Thus, (B) is correct, and (C) is wrong. (A) is wrong; the statements are not hearsay, and the state of mind exception applies to the state of mind of the speaker. (D) is wrong. Clearly, if Dent heard the statement, that would tend to establish the fear necessary for a self-defense claim.

\section{Answer to Question 180}

(C) Because the appropriation by the village council implicates the Establishment Clause and a portion of Curmudgeon's taxes are paying for the appropriation, the Court should entertain his suit. The Supreme Court will not decide a constitutional challenge to a government action unless the person who is challenging it has standing to raise the constitutional issue. To have standing, a person must be able to assert that he is injured by a government program. This injury must be more than the merely theoretical injury that all persons suffer by seeing their government engage in unconstitutional actions. In cases where a taxpayer is claiming injury from the use of his taxes for an unconstitutional appropriation or expenditure of public funds, the Supreme Court has required the taxpayer to show that the challenged measure (i) was enacted under the governmental body's power to tax and spend (rather than as an incidental expenditure in the administration of an essentially regulatory statute), and (ii) exceeds some specific limitation on that power. The only specific limitation that the Court has recognized when an appropriation measure has been challenged is the First Amendment's Establishment Clause. [See Flast v. Cohen (1968)] Here, Curmudgeon is challenging a specific appropriation of money by the village council that has been earmarked to benefit the property of the local church. The Establishment Clause, which is applicable to the states through the Fourteenth Amendment, requires that government programs (i) must have a secular purpose, (ii) must have a primary effect that neither advances nor inhibits religion, and (iii) must not produce excessive government entanglement with religion. Because the council's appropriation may violate these requirements, Curmudgeon has standing as a taxpayer to sue the council. (A) is incorrect even though the portion of Curmudgeon's taxes that would be used for the appropriation is minimal. While this factor has been relied on by the Supreme Court in its general refusal to grant federal and state taxpayers standing, it has not been used to deny municipal taxpayers standing in federal courts. [See Asarco, Inc. v. Kadish (1989)] Furthermore, the Court has carved out a narrow exception for federal taxpayers to challenge an appropriation, despite the fact that any one taxpayer's contribution would be minute and indeterminable, where the measure was enacted under Congress's taxing and spending powers and violates the Establishment Clause (as discussed above). This exception would be equally applicable to the village council's appropriation here if the court were to follow the federal taxpayer approach. Thus, the minimal contribution by Curmudgeon's taxes would be irrelevant. (B) is incorrect because it does not recognize the limited exception discussed above. (D) is incorrect because generally taxpayers do not have standing to sue on constitutional grounds. The Supreme Court has not expanded the standing rules beyond what Flast $v$. Cohen had established.

\section{Answer to Question 181}

(D) Landesmann can recover all of his damages. Where two or more tortious acts combine to proximately cause an indivisible injury to a plaintiff, each tortfeasor will be jointly and severally liable for that injury. This is so even though each defendant acted entirely independently. Here, the tortious acts of Acorp and Beeco combined to proximately cause the poisoning of Landesmann's cattle. Thus, each company will be jointly and severally liable for the entire amount of Landesmann's damages. Thus, (D) is correct. (A) is wrong. Where two or more acts combine to cause the injury, but none of the acts standing alone would be sufficient, each of the acts is an actual cause of the injury (because but for either of the acts, the injury would not have occurred). Thus, Landesmann can recover because the combined actions of the defendants caused his injury. (B) is wrong because to recover Landesmann need not show the amount of fault of each defendant. (C) is wrong because, as mentioned, in this type of case the defendants are jointly and severally liable for the entire injury.

\section{Answer to Question 182}

(B) Barton's right to purchase is a preemptive option, which is subject to the Rule Against Perpetuities. If the option could be exercised more than 21 years after some life in being at its creation, it is void. Obviously, Barton's right to purchase will vest or fail within 21 years after Amato's death. Thus, the Rule's provisions are satisfied. (D) is incorrect because a preemptive right, such as is held by Barton, is not so onerous a restriction on transfer of property as to constitute an unreasonable restraint on alienation. (A) is incorrect because recordation is not essential to the validity of the instrument, as between the grantor and grantee. Recordation merely gives notice to the world that an interest affecting title has been conveyed. (C) is incorrect because there is no prohibition against the owner of property conveying her property so that it will pass outside of her will. Here, Amato has chosen freely to dispose of Riveracre in the manner described, and her choice will be given effect.

\section{Answer to Question 183}

(A) Pretrial familiarization of a signature by a nonexpert is not an accepted method of authentication because lay opinion as to the authenticity of handwriting must be based on personal familiarity with the handwriting. Here, the nonexpert's only familiarity with Drake's usual signature has come from pretrial preparation. An expert witness or the trier of fact can determine the genuineness of a writing by comparing the questioned writing with another writing proved to be genuine. Thus, (B) would be an accepted method of authenticating Drake's signature. (C) is an accepted method of authentication because it describes the requirements under the Federal Rules for authentication of an ancient document. (D) is acceptable as an admission by a party-opponenti.e., a prior acknowledgment by one of the parties of a relevant fact.

\section{Answer to Question 184}

(D) If Dennison believed that the building was abandoned, he probably will not be found to have the requisite mens rea for murder. Murder is the unlawful killing of another human being with malice aforethought. Malice aforethought exists when the defendant has (i) intent to kill, (ii) intent to inflict great bodily injury, (iii) reckless indifference to an unjustifiably high risk to human life ("abandoned and malignant heart"), or (iv) intent to commit a felony (under the felony murder doctrine). Here, the jury could find that spraying a building with submachine gun fire demonstrates a reckless indifference to an unjustifiably high risk to human life even though Dennison was not intending to shoot anyone. However, if the jury accepts his assertion that he believed that the building was abandoned and had no idea that there would be any people inside it, the jury will probably find that he did not have a sufficient awareness of an unjustifiably high risk to human life to be liable for murder. (A) is not as strong a defense as (D) because Dennison may still be found liable for the murder as an accomplice. Dennison will be an accomplice to the drive-by shooting even if he was only the driver because he assisted the principal in the commission of the crime and had the intent to do so. An accomplice is liable not only for the crime he intended to aid but also for any other crimes committed during commission of the intended crime if the other crimes were probable or foreseeable. Here, even though the Assassins knew that the store was closed, a jury could find that it was foreseeable that someone would be killed when they sprayed the building with submachine gun fire. Even if Dennison was only the driver, his best defense would be his belief that the building was abandoned. (B) is incorrect because Dennison's voluntary intoxication would not be a defense to a murder charge that was based on reckless indifference to an unjustifiably high risk to human life. Voluntary intoxication caused by alcohol or drugs is a defense to a crime that requires purpose (intent) or knowledge as long as the intoxication prevents the defendant from formulating the purpose or obtaining the knowledge. It is no defense to crimes involving recklessness or negligence, however. Even though recklessness requires a conscious disregard of the risk, and the defendant's intoxication may make him unaware of the risk, courts hold him liable for recklessness offenses because his initial act of becoming voluntarily intoxicated was reckless. Thus, for murder based on a malice aforethought of reckless indifference to an unjustifiably high risk to human life, voluntary intoxication would not be a defense. (C) is wrong because duress is not a defense to murder. A criminal offense may be excused if the defendant does the act under threat of imminent infliction of death or great bodily harm, as long as the defendant reasonably believes that the threat will be carried out. However, no threat will suffice as a defense to a homicide crime. Dennison may still be liable for murder if he acted with an awareness of an unjustifiably high risk to human life.

\section{Answer to Question 185}

(A) Hull acquired title to Brownacre by adverse possession. He possessed the property for longer than the required 10 years. Although Hull entered Brownacre without Orris's knowledge, he dealt with the property in such a manner as to put the true owner and the community on notice of the fact of his possession. Also, Hull's possession was continuous, exclusive, and hostile. Thus, the elements of adverse possession are present. Because Orris lost title to the land due to Hull's adverse possession, it follows that $(\mathrm{B}$ ) is incorrect. (D) is incorrect because Powell, who supposedly took title to Brownacre by a quitclaim deed from Orris, cannot take title from someone who had none to convey. (C) is incorrect because Burns never possessed the land for the requisite statutory period. Also, he did not hold the land in a hostile manner for a continuous period.

\section{Answer to Question 186}

(A) Under the concept of fixtures, the dam was converted from personalty into realty. The dam is an accessory to the land and passes with the ownership of the land. (A) expresses this fact. (B) is wrong because the document purporting to transfer Hull's interest in the dam to Burns was insufficient to transfer real property. (C) is an incorrect statement of the law. (D) is wrong because the dam, as an accessory to the land, belongs to the owner of the land.

\section{Answer to Question 187}

(D) The provision is unconstitutional. The Supreme Court has found "legislative vetoes" to be unconstitutional because they are not subject to presidential review and they violate the separation of powers guaranteed by the federal Constitution. The mechanism set up here has even less basis for constitutionality because the legislative veto that the Supreme Court held unconstitutional at least envisioned votes by one or both full houses of Congress (rather than a mere committee). (A) is incorrect because the Necessary and Proper Clause does not allow Congress to exceed its powers or violate the separation of powers. It merely allows Congress to adopt laws necessary and proper to the powers granted by the Constitution. (B) is incorrect because there is no such rule. Furthermore, the Supreme Court has generally abandoned the "privileges vs. rights" dichotomy. (C) is incorrect because the Equal Protection Clause applies only to actions by the states. Moreover, since no fundamental right or suspect class is involved, the discrimination here would be upheld as long as it is rational.

\section{Answer to Question 188}

(C) Title to Brownacre is vested half in Tenniel, free of the mortgage, and half in Stokes subject to the mortgage. Because the jurisdiction in which Brownacre is located recognizes the title theory of mortgages, Johnson's execution of the mortgage on Brownacre effected a severance of the joint tenancy, by passing a title interest from Johnson to Lowden. Following severance of the joint tenancy, Johnson and Tenniel held as tenants in common, with no right of survivorship. The interest of a tenant in common passes by succession. When Johnson died, Tenniel could not take Brownacre by right of survivorship, because of the severance of the joint tenancy. Thus, (A) and (B) are incorrect. Upon Johnson's death, Stokes succeeded to his interest in Brownacre, subject to the mortgage. However, Tenniel's interest in the property, as a tenant in common, is not subject to the mortgage. Therefore, (D) is incorrect and (C) is correct.

\section{Answer to Question 189}

(B) Both damages and an injunction would be ordered. Church has a life estate pur autre vie, and a life tenant as a general rule is not entitled to consume or exploit natural resources on the property; this constitutes affirmative (voluntary) waste that injures the interests of the future interest holders. Any award of damages will be held until the class gift to the grandchildren closes at Carl's death. (A) is wrong since the church's action did not terminate its interest. The "provided that" language creates a condition subsequent. An estate subject to a condition subsequent does not terminate automatically on the happening of the condition. To terminate, the grantor must exercise a right of entry, and here no right of entry was reserved. (C) is wrong because it is entirely unnecessary for Omar and Carl to be parties, since neither of them has any interest in the land. Omar has given up his interest entirely, and Carl is present in the conveyance only to serve as a measuring life for the life estate; he owns no interest in the land itself. (D) is wrong because the injury to the land is permanent and therefore should be prevented by an injunction.

\section{Answer to Question 190}

(D) Defendant acted in self-defense and, therefore, should not be convicted of a homicide. A person may use deadly force in self-defense if: (i) he is without fault; (ii) he is confronted with unlawful force; and (iii) he is threatened with imminent death or great bodily harm. All three elements are present under these facts. Because Vincent initiated the attack, he will be considered the aggressor, and Defendant will be deemed "without fault." Mere teasing words should not be sufficient to deem Defendant the aggressor, but even if the words were such a provocation, Vincent's sudden escalation of the fight into one involving deadly force would allow Defendant to use force in his own defense. Unlawful force is defined as force that constitutes a crime or a tort. Vincent's attack with the metal bar so qualifies. The defendant must reasonably believe that he is threatened with imminent death or great bodily harm if he does not respond with deadly force. Defendant had such a reasonable belief. Furthermore, Defendant had no duty to retreat under the prevailing rule. It follows that (A), (B), and (C) are incorrect, because Defendant's use of deadly force was justified by self-defense. 

\section{Answer to Question 191}

(A) Since White persists in refusing to testify as to matters covered in his earlier testimony, he should be considered "unavailable" at Dean's trial. Thus, his former testimony should be admissible as an exception to the hearsay rule. It will be considered to be trustworthy since it was given during formal proceedings, under oath, and subject to cross-examination. (B) is wrong because this is not the applicable exception to the hearsay rule. In this case there is no evidence that White does not presently remember the facts in question. (C) is wrong because White could have asserted his privilege against self-incrimination when the former testimony was given. He can assert his privilege at present to keep from testifying. (D) is wrong because there is an applicable exception to the hearsay rule.

\section{Answer to Question 192}

(D) Having created a forum generally open for use by all groups, Hometown must justify its exclusions therefrom under applicable constitutional norms. To justify discriminatory exclusion from a public forum based on the religious content of a group's intended speech, Hometown must show that the ordinance is necessary to serve a compelling state interest, and that it is narrowly drawn to achieve that end. Alternative (B) suggests that the ordinance serves the compelling interest of maintaining separation of church and state. However, the former "equal access" policy did not offend the Establishment Clause. The former policy had a secular purpose (providing a forum in which citizens can exchange ideas); it avoided excessive entanglement with religion; and it did not have a primary effect of either advancing or inhibiting religion (permitting religious groups to use the auditorium would result in, at most, an incidental benefit). Thus, (B) is incorrect. (A) is incorrect because an unjustified content-based exclusion of religious speech is not made more acceptable by virtue of the fact that it treats all religions equally. (C) is incorrect because, although there is no authoritative constitutional definition of religion, it is unlikely that the term "religious groups" will be deemed to be impermissibly vague.

\section{Answer to Question 193}

(A) Light Company had notice that the insulators were being destroyed, causing the power lines to fall. Certainly, it was foreseeable that children, or anyone else, in the vicinity of a fallen line might be injured by such a dangerous condition. Consequently, Light Company had a duty to take reasonable steps, if possible, to prevent the lines from falling. Breach of this duty will lay the foundation for a recovery by Paul. (B) is simply an incorrect statement of the law. (C) is incorrect because, even if the company took measures to stop the destruction of the insulators, it also had a duty to take precautions against the danger of falling power lines. (D) is incorrect because Light Company had a duty to make its operations safe in light of the destruction of which it had notice. This is true even though the destruction was intentional. Criminal acts and intentional torts of third persons are not superseding forces where they are foreseeable, such as here.

\section{Answer to Question 194}

(D) Generally, an existing violation of a zoning ordinance renders title unmarketable. Here, the location of the house in relation to the side line setback exposes Perrine to the threat of litigation, both for violation of the zoning ordinance and for violation of a restriction in the recorded subdivision plot. Regardless of the likelihood that such litigation may be initiated, and of the likelihood that Perrine would ultimately prevail, he cannot be required to "buy a lawsuit." Thus, (D) is the correct answer. It follows that (A) and (B) are incorrect. (C) is incorrect because it fails to address the issue of unmarketability of title through exposure to potential litigation, which forms the basis for Perrine's refusal to consummate the transaction.

\section{Answer to Question 195}

(B) Restrictions on the ability of persons to be candidates may violate the First Amendment rights of speech and political association or the Fourteenth Amendment Equal Protection Clause. The Supreme Court uses a balancing test in determining whether a regulation of the electoral process is valid: if the restriction on First Amendment activities is severe, it will be upheld only if it is narrowly tailored to achieve a compelling interest, but if the restriction is reasonable and nondiscriminatory, it generally will be upheld on the basis of the state's important regulatory interests. Thus, if the ballot restriction here is deemed to be a severe and unreasonable burden on independent candidates, Roderick's best argument is choice (B) - that the objectives of the statute could be satisfactorily achieved by less burdensome means. [See Norman v. Reed (1992)] A state may require that independent candidates obtain a reasonable number of signatures. Although such a requirement may be burdensome, that factor alone does not make it invalid. Thus, (A) is not as strong an argument as (B). (D) is incorrect because signature requirements may be justified by a state interest in assuring that candidates have at least minimal support before they are allowed to appear on the ballot. (C) is incorrect because the fact that few independent candidates have obtained ballot status may simply reflect the absence of even the minimal popular support which the state may legitimately require.

\section{Answer to Question 196}

(C) Miranda warnings are required only where the accused has made a statement during custodial interrogation. Barber voluntarily complied with a request to come to police headquarters, where he was not arrested and was free to leave. During his discussion with the police officers, he voluntarily made a spontaneous inculpatory statement. Thus, he was not entitled to Miranda warnings, and (A) is incorrect. (B) is incorrect because, in circumstances such as these, the right to counsel would attach only if there was a custodial police interrogation. "Interrogation" refers not only to express questioning, but also to other words or actions reasonably likely to elicit an incriminating response from the suspect. However, routine questions that the police had no reason to believe would elicit an incriminating response do not constitute an interrogation. Also, there is no due process violation arising from the making of a free and voluntary statement. (D) is incorrect primarily because Barber was not entitled to Miranda warnings simply by visiting the police station. Thus, he had nothing to waive. However, even if Barber was entitled to the warnings, the facts do not indicate a waiver. A waiver must be knowing, voluntary and intelligent. Merely agreeing to visit police headquarters does not constitute a knowing, voluntary, and intelligent waiver of Miranda warnings.

\section{Answer to Question 197}

(D) Garrison is liable by virtue of his negligence, and Astin is vicariously liable for Garrison's negligence by virtue of the statute. Where such joint liability exists, the plaintiff may recover the entire judgment amount from either defendant. Further, where one is held liable for damages caused by another simply because of his relationship to that person (i.e., vicarious liability), such person may seek indemnification from the person whose conduct actually caused the damage. Applying the foregoing principles to the facts of this question, Placek may recover the entire \$ 100,000$ from Astin and Garrison jointly. This eliminates (A) and (B). Because Astin is only liable vicariously, she is entitled to indemnification from Garrison for any amount collected from Astin by Placek. Therefore, (D) is the correct answer and (C) is incorrect. 

\section{Answer to Question 198}

(B) If the Smiths had a reasonable (i.e., good faith) belief in the enforceability of their claim, their surrender of the claim is valid consideration. (A) is wrong because the reason they made the gift is immaterial if neither Herb nor Edna deliberately misled them. (C) is irrelevant because the accounts were held in joint tenancy and any interest Edna may have had in the funds ended when she died. (D) is wrong because there was no consideration given for Edna's promise and the fact that it was in writing does not change the lack of consideration.

\section{Answer to Question 199}

(D) If the Smiths have given up a good faith claim, their agreement with Herb is a compromise supported by valid consideration. Thus, there is an enforceable contract. (A) is wrong because Herb was requesting a promise from the Smiths, not an act. (B) is wrong because Herb was under no obligation to reject a gift if he did not deliberately induce the Smiths to give it. (C) is wrong because there is no evidence that the Smiths gave the food in reliance on any promise made by Herb.

\section{Answer to Question 200}

(A) Walter's testimony, although hearsay, should be admissible under the exception for present sense impressions. Hearsay is defined under the Federal Rules as "a statement, other than one made by the declarant while testifying at the trial or hearing, offered in evidence to prove the truth of the matter asserted." Walter's testimony as to what Vincent said on the phone is hearsay: Vincent's statement that "Dornbach is here" is being offered in evidence by someone other than Vincent to prove that Dornbach was present at Vincent's house shortly before he was killed. Walter's testimony is therefore not admissible under Fed. R. Evid. 802 unless an exception to the hearsay rule applies. Rule 803(1) recognizes an exception for a statement "describing or explaining an event or condition made while the declarant was perceiving the event or condition, or immediately thereafter." Because the statement is made concurrently with the event it is describing, it is safe from defects in memory and there is usually little or no time for calculated misstatements. Here, Vincent's statement that "Dornbach is here" was made to Walter immediately after he went to the door and perceived Dornbach to be there. Thus, the statement is Vincent's present sense impression that Walter may testify to at trial. (B) is incorrect because Vincent's statement is not being offered to show his state of mind or his intent to do something in the future. The prosecution is using Vincent's statement simply to establish Dornbach's presence at Vincent's house the day he was killed. (C) is wrong because the prior identification must be by the witness testifying at trial to be admissible. Had Vincent survived an attempted homicide and testified at Dornbach's trial, Fed. R. Evid. 801(d) $(1)(\mathrm{C})$ would permit his prior statement to Walter identifying Dornbach to be admitted as nonhearsay and substantive evidence. (D) is incorrect. While the testimony is hearsay, it falls within the exception to the hearsay rule for present sense impressions. 

\section{CONSTITUTIONAL LAW QUESTIONS}

\section{Question 1}

A newly enacted criminal statute provides