\section{CRIMINAL LAW QUESTIONS}

\section{Question 1}

In which of the following situations is Defendant's claim of intoxication most likely to result in his being found not guilty?

(A) Defendant is charged with manslaughter for a death resulting from an automobile accident. Defendant, the driver, claims he was so drunk he was unable to see the other car involved in the accident.

(B) Defendant is charged with assault with intent to kill Watts, as a result of his wounding Watts by shooting him. Defendant claims he was so drunk he did not realize anyone else was around when he fired the gun.

(C) Defendant is charged with armed robbery. He claims he was so drunk he did not know whether the gun was loaded.

(D) Defendant is charged with statutory rape, after he had sexual intercourse with a girl aged 15 , in a jurisdiction where the age of consent is 16 . Defendant claims he was so drunk he did not realize the girl was a minor.

\section{Question 2}

Jackson and Brannick planned to break into a federal government office to steal food stamps. Jackson telephoned Crowley one night and asked whether Crowley wanted to buy some "hot" food stamps. Crowley, who understood that "hot" meant stolen, said, "Sure, bring them right over." Jackson and Brannick then successfully executed their scheme. That same night they delivered the food stamps to Crowley, who bought them for \$ 500$. Crowley did not ask when or by whom the stamps were stolen. All three were arrested. Jackson and Brannick entered guilty pleas in federal court to a charge of larceny in connection with the theft. Crowley was brought to trial in the state court on a charge of conspiracy to steal food stamps. On the evidence stated, Crowley should be found:

(A) Guilty, because, when a new confederate enters a conspiracy already in progress, he becomes a party to it.

(B) Guilty, because he knowingly and willingly aided and abetted the conspiracy and is chargeable as a principal.

(C) Not guilty, because, although Crowley knew the stamps were stolen, he neither helped to plan nor participated or assisted in the theft.

(D) Not guilty, because Jackson and Brannick had not been convicted of or charged with conspiracy, and Crowley cannot be guilty of conspiracy by himself.

\section{Question 3}

Jack and Paul planned to hold up a bank. They drove to the bank in Jack's car. Jack entered while Paul remained as lookout in the car. After a few moments, Paul panicked and drove off.

Jack looked over the various tellers, approached one and whispered nervously, "Just hand over the cash. Don't look around, don't make a false move-or it's your life." The teller looked at the fidgeting Jack, laughed, flipped him a dollar bill, and said, "Go on, beat it." Flustered, Jack grabbed the dollar and left.

Paul's best defense to a charge of robbery would be that:

(A) Jack alone entered the bank.

(B) Paul withdrew, before commission of the crime, when he fled the scene.

(C) Paul had no knowledge of what Jack whispered to the teller.

(D) The teller was not placed in fear by Jack. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

\section{Question 4}

Adam and Bailey, brothers, operated an illicit still. They customarily sold to anyone unless they suspected the person of being a revenue agent or an informant. One day when Adam was at the still alone, he was approached by Mitchell, who asked to buy a gallon of liquor. Mitchell was in fact a revenue officer. After Adam had sold him the liquor, Mitchell revealed his identity. Adam grabbed one of the rifles that the brothers kept handy in case of trouble with the law, and shot and wounded Mitchell. Other officers, hiding nearby, overpowered and arrested Adam.

Shortly thereafter, Bailey came on the scene. The officers in hiding had been waiting for him. One of them approached him and asked to buy liquor. Bailey was suspicious and refused to sell. The officers nevertheless arrested him.

Adam and Bailey were charged with conspiracy to violate revenue laws, illegal selling of liquor, and battery of the officer.

On the charge of battery, which statement concerning Adam and Bailey is true?
(A) Neither is guilty.
(B) Both are guilty.
(C) Adam is guilty but Bailey is not, because the conspiracy had terminated with the arrest of Adam.
(D) Adam is guilty but Bailey is not, because Adam's act was outside the scope of the conspiracy.

\section{Question 5}

Dent, while eating in a restaurant, noticed that a departing customer at the next table had left a five-dollar bill as a tip for the waitress. Dent reached over, picked up the five-dollar bill, and put it in his pocket. As he stood up to leave, another customer who had seen him take the money ran over to him and hit him in the face with her umbrella. Enraged, Dent choked the customer to death. Dent is charged with murder. He requests the court to charge the jury that they can find him guilty of voluntary manslaughter rather than murder. Dent's request should be:

(A) Granted, because the jury could find that Dent acted recklessly and not with the intent to cause death or serious bodily harm.

(B) Granted, because the jury could find that being hit in the face with an umbrella constitutes adequate provocation.

(C) Denied, because the evidence shows that Dent intended to kill or to cause serious bodily harm.

(D) Denied, because the evidence shows that Dent provoked the assault on himself by his criminal misconduct.

\section{Question 6}

Brown suffered from the delusion that he was a special agent of God. He frequently experienced hallucinations in the form of hearing divine commands. Brown believed God told him several times that the local Roman Catholic bishop was corrupting the diocese into heresy, and that the bishop should be "done away with." Brown, a devout Catholic, conceived of himself as a religious martyr. He knew that shooting bishops for heresy is against the criminal law. $\mathrm{He}$ nevertheless carefully planned how he might kill the bishop. One evening Brown shot the bishop, who was taken to the hospital, where he died two weeks later.

Brown told the police he assumed the institutions of society would support the ecclesiastical hierarchy, and he expected to be persecuted for his God-inspired actions. Psychiatrist Stevens examined Brown and found that Brown suffered from schizophrenic psychosis, that in the absence of this psychosis he would not have shot the bishop, and that because of the psychosis Brown found it extremely difficult to determine whether he should obey the specific command that he do away with the bishop or the general commandment "Thou shalt not kill"; Brown was charged with murder. If Brown interposes an insanity defense and the jurisdiction in which he is tried has adopted only the M'Naghten test of insanity, then the strongest argument for the defense under that test is that:

(A) Brown did not know the nature of the act he was performing.

(B) Brown did not know that his act was morally wrong.

(C) Brown did not know the quality of the act he was performing.

(D) Brown's acts were the product of a mental disease.

\section{Question 7}

In which of the following situations is Defendant most likely to be guilty of common law murder?

(A) During an argument in a bar, Norris punches Defendant. Defendant, mistakenly believing that Norris is about to stab him, shoots and kills Norris.

(B) While committing a robbery of a liquor store, Defendant accidentally drops his revolver, which goes off. The bullet strikes and kills Johnson, a customer in the store.

(C) While hunting deer, Defendant notices something moving in the bushes. Believing it to be a deer, Defendant fires into the bushes. The bullet strikes and kills Griggs, another hunter.

(D) In celebration of the Fourth of July, Defendant discharges a pistol within the city limits in violation of a city ordinance. The bullet ricochets off the street and strikes and kills Abbott.

\section{Question 8}

Dutton, disappointed by his eight-year-old son's failure to do well in school, began systematically depriving the child of food during summer vacation. Although his son became seriously ill from malnutrition, Dutton failed to call a doctor. He believed that as a parent he had the sole right to determine whether the child was fed or received medical treatment. Eventually, the child died. An autopsy disclosed that the child had suffered agonizingly as a result of the starvation, that a physician's aid would have alleviated the suffering, and that although the child would have died in a few months from malnutrition, the actual cause of death was an untreatable form of cancer.

The father was prosecuted for murder, defined in the jurisdiction as "unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought." 'The father should be:

(A) Acquitted, because of the defendant's good faith belief concerning parental rights in supervising children.

(B) Acquitted, because summoning the physician or feeding the child would not have prevented the child's death from cancer.

(C) Convicted, because the father's treatment of his son showed a reckless indifference to the value of life.

(D) Convicted, because the child would have died from malnutrition had he not been afflicted with cancer.

\section{Question 9}

Vance had cheated Dodd in a card game. Angered, Dodd set out for Vance's house with the intention of shooting him. Just as he was about to set foot on Vance's property, Dodd was arrested by a police officer who noticed that Dodd was carrying a revolver. A statute in the jurisdiction makes it a crime to "enter the property of another with the intent to commit any crime of violence thereon."

If charged with attempting to violate the statute, Dodd should be found:

(A) Not guilty, because the statute defines an attempt crime and there cannot be an attempt to attempt. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

(B) Not guilty, because to convict him would be to punish him simply for having a guilty mind.

(C) Guilty, because he was close enough to entering the property and he had the necessary state of mind.

(D) Guilty, because this is a statute designed to protect the public from violence, and Dodd was dangerous.



\section{Questions 10-15} are based on the following fact situation and require you to assume that you are in either a TYPE A or a TYPE B jurisdiction:

TYPE A. The homicide statute in this jurisdiction reads in part as follows:

Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought. Such malice may be express or implied. It is express when there is manifested a deliberate intention unlawfully to take away the life of a fellow creature. It is implied when no considerable provocation appears or when the circumstances attending the killing show an abandoned and malignant heart. Every person guilty of murder shall suffer death or confinement in the state prison for life, at the discretion of the jury trying the same.

TYPE B. The homicide statute in this jurisdiction reads in part as follows:

Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought. Such malice may be express or implied. It is express when there is manifested a deliberate intention unlawfully to take away the life of a fellow creature. It is implied when no considerable provocation appears or when the circumstances attending the killing show an abandoned and malignant heart. All murder that is perpetrated by willful, deliberate, or premeditated killing or that is committed in the perpetration of or attempt to perpetrate arson, rape, robbery, or burglary is murder of the murder in the first degree shall suffer death or confinement in the state prison for life, at the discretion of the jury trying the same. Every person convicted of murder in the second degree shall be confined in the state prison for life.

Both TYPE A and TYPE B jurisdictions have a statute reading as follows:

Manslaughter is the unlawful killing of a human being without malice. It is of two kinds:


\section{1} Voluntary-upon a sudden quarrel or heat of passion.


\section{2} Involuntary-in the commission of an unlawful act, not amounting to a felony; or in the commission of a lawful act that might produce death in an unlawful manner or without due caution and circumspection.

Manslaughter is punishable by imprisonment in the state prison not exceeding 15 years.

Victor and Defendant were 16 and 17 , respectively. Both were old enough to be legally responsible for a crime in the particular jurisdiction. By prearrangement they met at the Dairy Shoppe, a teenage hangout. They were depressed. It had been raining for some days, and school had been out for several weeks. Defendant asked Victor if he would like to play Russian roulette. They played with a revolver, as they had done before. The cylinder of the revolver had six chambers, from which they would remove all but one cartridge. One of them would then spin the cylinder, point the revolver at the other's head, and fire it. With six chambers and one cartridge, the odds were 5 to 1 that the revolver would not fire.

Defendant obtained the revolver from his parents' bedroom. Adam, his father, kept the revolver in the bedroom at all times. Adam repeatedly bragged that he kept a loaded revolver in his room. Defendant took the revolver in his pocket, and then proceeded to the Dairy Shoppe. Victor agreed to play Russian roulette. Defendant, pointing the revolver at Victor's head, pulled the trigger. Nothing happened. Victor then spun the cylinder and pointed the revolver at Defendant's head. He pulled the trigger. Nothing happened. Defendant spun the cylinder and pointed the revolver at Victor's head. He pulled the trigger. The gun fired. He was heard to exclaim: "Victor, Victor, I didn't think it would shoot! I'm sorry!" Victor died en route to the hospital.


\section{10} Defendant is charged with murder in a TYPE A jurisdiction. Which of the following is the soundest result?
(A) Not guilty, because consent is a complete defense.
(B) Not guilty, because the negligence of Adam is a complete defense.
(C) Guilty of murder.
(D) Guilty of involuntary manslaughter.


\section{11} Defendant is charged with first degree murder in a TYPE B jurisdiction. Which of the following is Defendant's soundest theory of defense?

(A) Laws making a 17-year-old liable for any homicide are unconstitutional as imposing a cruel and unusual punishment.

(B) A revolver with only one of its six chambers loaded is not a deadly weapon, and its use therefore cannot prove deliberate killing.

(C) Defendant, because of his youth, could not have the malice aforethought required for murder.

(D) Defendant is guilty of murder, but his deed does not fall within the definition of first degree murder.


\section{12} Defendant is charged with murder in a TYPE A jurisdiction. The trial judge can properly charge the jury on which of the following theories?
(A) Involuntary manslaughter only.
(B) Murder and involuntary manslaughter.
(C) Murder and voluntary manslaughter.
(D) First degree murder, second degree murder, and involuntary manslaugh- ter.


\section{13} Defendant is charged with murder in a TYPE A jurisdiction. Which of the following is the soundest argument of the prosecutor?

(A) Defendant's actions demonstrated an abandoned and malignant heart because he knew his act might cause death or great bodily harm.

(B) The homicide is a felony murder since Victor's death was the result of an assault with a deadly weapon.

(C) Defendant by definition is not a juvenile and can be found guilty of a capital crime.

(D) The negligence of Adam is not a supervening cause which will relieve Defendant of liability.


\section{14} Defendant is charged with first degree murder in a TYPE B jurisdiction. Defendant's best argument for acquittal of first degree murder would be that:
(A) He committed no arson, rape, robbery, or burglary.
(B) He did not deliberate or premeditate.
(C) Victor consented to the homicide.


\section{ He did not deliberate, premeditate, or commit a first degree felony murder} Assuming statutes covering the following offenses, in a TYPE A jurisdiction Adam, the father, can be most appropriately charged with:
(A) Assault with a deadly weapon.
(B) Contributing to the delinquency of a minor.
(C) Murder.
(D) Voluntary manslaughter.



\section{Questions 16-17} are based on the following fact situation:

Linda was 15 years old, but she appeared and acted older. When asked, she always said she was 22 , and she carried false identification saying she was that old. She frequented taverns and drank heavily. One evening in a bar she became acquainted with Duke. He believed her when she told him her claimed age. They had several drinks and became inebriated. Later, they drove in Duke's car to a secluded spot. After they had necked for a while, Duke propositioned Linda and she consented. Before Duke achieved penetration, Linda changed her mind, saying, "Stop! Don't touch me! I don't want to do it." When Duke did not desist, Linda started to cry and said, "I am only 15." Duke immediately jumped from the car and ran away. Duke was indicted for attempted rape, assault with intent to rape, contributing to the delinquency of a minor, and attempted statutory rape. The age of consent in the jurisdiction is 16 .


\section{16} If the contributing charge were based on a statute reading, "Whoever shall commit an act affecting the morals of a minor under 16 years of age shall be deemed guilty of contributing to the delinquency of a minor and shall be punished by imprisonment in the state penitentiary for a period not to exceed 5 years," Duke's best legal defense would be that:
(A) The statute is unconstitutionally vague.
(B) Linda consented to his actions.
(C) He was entrapped by Linda's appear- ance.
(D) He did not intend to contribute to her delinquency.


\section{17} With respect to the contributing charge under the statute set out in the question above, proof by Duke that he was so inebriated that he could not have formed a criminal intent would be a:
(A) Good defense, because the charge requires a specific intent.
(B) Good defense, because at least a general criminal intent is required for every offense.
(C) Poor defense, because contributing to the delinquency of a minor is an offense against a child.
(D) Poor defense, because the state of mind of the defendant is irrelevant to this offense, so long as he was legally sane.



\section{Questions 18-20} are based on the following fact situation:

Adams, Bennett, and Curtis are charged in a common law jurisdiction with conspiracy to commit larceny. The state introduced evidence that they agreed to go to Nelson's house to take stock certificates from a safe in Nelson's bedroom, that they went to the house, and that they were arrested as they entered Nelson's bedroom.

Adams testified that he thought the stock certificates belonged to Curtis, that Nelson was improperly keeping them from Curtis, and that he went along to aid in retrieving Curtis's property. Bennett testified that he suspected Adams and Curtis of being thieves and joined up with them in order to catch them. He also testified that he made an anonymous telephone call to the police alerting them to the crime and that the call caused the police to be waiting for them when they walked into Nelson's bedroom.

Curtis did not testify.


\section{18} If the jury believes Adams, it should find him:
(A) Guilty, because there was an agree- ment and the entry into the bedroom is sufficient for the overt act.
(B) Guilty, because good motives are not a defense to criminal liability.
(C) Not guilty, because he did not have a corrupt motive.
(D) Not guilty, because he did not intend to steal.


\section{19} If the jury believes Bennett, it should find him:
(A) Guilty, because there was an agree- ment and the entry into the bedroom is sufficient for the overt act.
(B) Guilty, because he is not a police officer and thus cannot claim any privilege of apprehending criminals.
(C) Not guilty, because he did not intend to steal.
(D) Not guilty, because he prevented the theft from occurring.


\section{20} If the jury believes both Adams and Bennett, it should find Curtis:

(A) Guilty, because there was an agreement and the entry into the bedroom is sufficient for the overt act.

(B) Guilty, because he intended to steal. (C) Not guilty, because a conviction would penalize him for exercising his right not to be a witness.

(D) Not guilty, because Adams and Bennett did not intend to steal.



\section{Questions 21-25} are based on the four case summaries below. For each question, select the case that would be most applicable as a precedent:

(A) Commonwealth v. Mason. Two brothers see a wealthy neighbor's pedigreed dog on the street. They take the dog home, intending to conceal it until the owner offers a reward. Held, guilty of larceny.

(B) Saferite $v$. State. Two young men saw a motor car on the street with the keys in the ignition lock. They drove the car to a neighboring town with the intention, they said, of visiting the wife of one of them. The car was wrecked on their way back. Conviction for larceny reversed.

(C) People v. Noblett. Defendant, a tenant of a city apartment, advertised it for sublease. Will agreed to sublease for three months, and on March 12 paid Defendant \$550, the total agreed rental. Will was to receive possession on March 20, but possession was never given him. Held, not guilty of common law larceny.

(D) King v. Pear. From a stablekeeper, Defendant hired a horse to go to Sutton and back, saying he would be back at 8 p.m. He did not return. Investigation showed that Defendant had given a false address, and that he had sold the horse the same day. Conviction of larceny affirmed.


\section{21} Davis paid Realtor \$ 500$ as down payment on a house. That night, Davis broke into a hardware store and took a brace and bit. Davis broke into Realtor's office and used the tools to open the safe, where he had seen Realtor place the \$ 500$. The safe was empty. Davis's fingerprints on the tools, left lying in front of the safe, led to his arrest. He is charged with larceny of the tools. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}


\section{22} Smith placed a newspaper advertisement reading, "Wanted: responsible man to collect for large firm. \$ 500$ security required. Address Box 66, Times." Vincent answered the ad and was called on by Smith, who said he represented Ames Advertising Agency. He took Vincent to the office of the company (a large actual firm), but as they were about to enter the building Smith said, "There is Mr. Ames now," and introduced him to a companion of Smith who impersonated Ames. The result of the conversation was that the false Ames agreed to hire Vincent. It was agreed that Vincent would draw \$ 500$ from the bank to put up as security, and that this money would be placed in a bank and Vincent given a certificate of deposit in his own name. They went to the bank where Vincent gave Smith the money, after which Smith and "Ames" disappeared. Smith was later charged with larceny.


\section{23} Jones, angry at a neighbor with whom he had quarreled, for revenge surreptitiously removed a piece of stone statuary from the neighbor's garden and concealed it in his garage. He intended to replace it a day or two later, after giving the neighbor a chance to feel bad over its being stolen. Suspecting who was guilty, the neighbor had Jones arrested and charged with larceny.


\section{24} Harris, a heroin addict, broke into a home and took several cameras and watches, which he promptly pawned to obtain cash with which to purchase a "fix." Harris was later charged with larceny of the cameras and watches.


\section{25} Allison told Mark that he, Allison, was the legal representative for a syndicate that had a photoelectric machine for making counterfeit money, and to prove that the money was good enough to "pass anywhere," Allison showed what he said was one of the counterfeit \$ 10$ bills. He said that if Mark would invest \$ 1,000$, the syndicate would pay him counterfeit money in the amount of \$ 10,000$. Mark paid the \$ 1,000$ to Allison, who then disappeared. Allison is caught and charged with larceny.

\section{Question 26}

Ted frequently visited Janet, his next-door neighbor. Janet was separated from her husband, Howard. Howard resided with his mother but jointly owned the house in which Janet resided. Late one night, Ted and Janet were sitting on the bed in Janet's bedroom drinking when Howard burst through the door and told Ted, "Get out!" When Ted refused, Howard challenged him to go outside and "fight it out." Ted again refused. Howard then pulled a knife from his pocket and lunged at Ted. Ted grabbed a lamp, struck Howard on the head, and killed him. Ted is charged with murder.

On a charge of murder, Ted should be found:

(A) Not guilty, because Ted had as much right as Howard to be in the house.

(B) Not guilty, because Howard attacked Ted with a deadly weapon.

(C) Guilty, because Ted's presence in Janet's bedroom prompted Howard's attack.

(D) Guilty, because Ted's failure to obey Howard's order to leave the house made him a trespasser.

\section{Question 27}

Defendant is charged with assault and battery. The state's evidence shows that Victim was struck in the face by Defendant's fist.

In which of the following situations is Defendant most likely to be not guilty of assault and battery?

(A) Defendant had been hypnotized at a party and ordered by the hypnotist to strike the person he disliked the most. (B) Defendant was suffering from an epileptic seizure and had no control over his motions.

(C) Defendant was heavily intoxicated and was shadow boxing without realizing that Victim was near him.

(D) Defendant, who had just awakened from a deep sleep, was not fully aware of what was happening and mistakenly thought Victim was attacking him.

\section{Question 28}

Donna was arrested and taken to police headquarters, where she was given her Miranda warnings. Donna indicated that she wished to telephone her lawyer and was told that she could do so after her fingerprints had been taken. While being fingerprinted, however, Donna blurted out, "Paying a lawyer is a waste of money because I know you have me."

At trial, Donna's motion to prevent the introduction of the statement she made while being fingerprinted will most probably be:

(A) Granted, because Donna's request to contact her attorney by telephone was reasonable and should have been granted immediately.

(B) Granted, because of the "fruit of the poisonous tree" doctrine.

(C) Denied, because the statements were volunteered and not the result of interrogation.

(D) Denied, because fingerprinting is not a critical stage of the proceeding requiring the assistance of counsel.

\section{Question 29}

Driving down a dark road, Defendant accidentally ran over a man. Defendant stopped and found that the victim was dead. Defendant, fearing that he might be held responsible, took the victim's wallet, which contained a substantial amount of money. He removed the identification papers and put the wallet and money back into the victim's pocket.

Defendant is not guilty of:

(A) Larceny, because he took the papers only to prevent identification and not for his own use.

(B) Larceny, because he did not take anything from a living victim.

(C) Robbery, because he did not take the papers by means of force or putting in fear.

(D) Robbery, because he did not take anything of monetary value.

\section{Question 30}

Tom had a heart ailment so serious that his doctors had concluded that only a heart transplant could save his life. They therefore arranged to have him flown to Big City to have the operation performed.

Dan, Tom's nephew, who stood to inherit from him, poisoned him. The poison produced a reaction which required postponing the journey. The plane on which Tom was to have flown crashed, and all aboard were killed. By the following day, Tom's heart was so weakened by the effects of the poison that he suffered a heart attack and died.

If charged with criminal homicide, Dan should be found:

(A) Guilty.

(B) Not guilty, because his act did not hasten the deceased's death, but instead prolonged his life by one day.

(C) Not guilty, because the deceased was already suffering from a fatal illness.

(D) Not guilty, because the poison was not the sole cause of death. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}



\section{Questions 31-32} are based on the following fact situation:

Statutes in the jurisdiction define criminal assault as "an attempt to commit a criminal battery" and criminal battery as "causing an offensive touching."

As Edward was walking down the street, a gust of wind blew his hat off. Edward reached out, trying to grab his hat, and narrowly missed striking Margaret in the face with his hand. Margaret, fearful of being struck by Edward, pushed Edward away.


\section{31} If charged with criminal assault, Edward should be found:

(A) Guilty, because he caused Margaret to be in apprehension of an offensive touching.

(B) Guilty, because he should have realized he might strike someone by reaching out.

(C) Not guilty, because he did not intend to hit Margaret.

(D) Not guilty, because he did not hit Margaret.


\section{32} If charged with criminal battery, Margaret should be found:
(A) Guilty, because she intentionally pushed Edward.
(B) Guilty, because she caused the touch- ing of Edward whether she meant to do so or not.
(C) Not guilty, because a push is not an offensive touching.
(D) Not guilty, because she was justified in pushing Edward.

\section{Question 33}

A state statute makes it a felony for any teacher at a state institution of higher education to accept anything of value from a student at the same institution. Monroe, a student at the state university, offered Professor Smith, his English teacher, \$ 50$ in exchange for a good grade in his English course. Smith agreed and took the money. Professor Smith and Monroe are tried jointly for violation of the state statute. Professor Smith is charged with violating the statute and Monroe with aiding and abetting him.

Monroe's best argument for a dismissal of the charge against him is that:

(A) A principal and an accessory cannot be tried together, since the principal must be convicted first.

(B) He cannot be an accessory, since he is the victim of the crime.

(C) The legislature did not intend to punish the person giving the thing of value.

(D) He did not assist Professor Smith in violating the statute.

\section{Question 34}

In which of the following situations is Defendant most likely to be guilty of larceny?

(A) Defendant took Sue's television set, with the intention of returning it the next day. However, he dropped it and damaged it beyond repair.

(B) Defendant went into Tom's house and took \$ 100$ in the belief that Tom had damaged Defendant's car to that amount.

(C) Mistakenly believing that larceny does not include the taking of a dog, Defendant took his neighbor's dog and sold it.

(D) Unreasonably mistaking George's car for his own, Defendant got into George's car in a parking lot and drove it home. 

\section{CRIMINAL LAW ANSWERS}

\section{Answer to Question 1}

(B) Voluntary intoxication is a defense to a crime that requires intent (assault with intent to kill), and in (B) the intoxication prevented Defendant from formulating the intent to commit the crime. (A) and (D) are incorrect because voluntary intoxication is no defense to crimes involving recklessness or strict liability. (C) is incorrect because Defendant's intoxication did not prevent him from formulating the purpose or intent to commit the crime.

\section{Answer to Question 2}

(C) Crowley should be found not guilty because what he did was commit the crime of receiving stolen property knowing it to be stolen. This crime would not be necessary if the mere agreement to purchase the loot after another had already stolen it were enough to make the purchaser a conspirator. (A) is wrong. The point of law stated is accurate enough, but it assumes that simply by agreeing to buy the stamps, Crowley joined in the conspiracy to steal them. (B) is wrong because Crowley did not aid and abet the conspiracy to commit larceny because that conspiracy had already accomplished its target object, the stealing of the stamps. (D) is wrong. It is true that one may not conspire with himself. But it is not true that one who does enter into a conspiracy with one or more people cannot be convicted unless the others are at least charged with the conspiracy. If only one conspirator is prosecuted, however, the prosecution must show that, in fact, others were involved with the defendant on trial.

\section{Answer to Question 3}

(D) Paul's best defense is that Jack did not commit a robbery. Robbery is in effect a larceny from the person, committed by force or fear. Here, force was threatened, not actually used. Had the teller felt any apprehension that Jack would use a gun if he did not do what he was told, this would be "fear" even though the victim remained cool and poised while complying with the demands, and knew that as long as he did so, no force would be used. In this case, however, it is obvious that the teller felt no fear at all. (Paul's crime was attempted robbery.) (A) is wrong. Paul was an accomplice to Jack. He would incur vicarious liability for crimes committed by Jack. (B) is wrong. Paul would be an accomplice to attempted robbery (and perhaps larceny) because he did not repudiate his assistance before fleeing; thus, he did not effectively withdraw. (C) is wrong. We are told that Paul and Jack planned to hold up a bank. It is not necessary that the accomplice know all the precise details of how this is to be carried out. It suffices that Paul knew that Jack would use the threat of force to obtain property permanently.

\section{Answer to Question 4}

(B) Battery is an unlawful application of force to the person of another resulting in bodily injury or an offensive touching. Adam's shooting and wounding of Mitchell meets all the elements of the crime. Thus, Adam is guilty of battery. Bailey is also guilty of battery because Adam conspired with Bailey to operate an illegal still, and each co-conspirator is liable for the crimes of all other co-conspirators if: (i) the crimes were committed in furtherance of the objective of the conspiracy; and (ii) the crimes were a natural and probable consequence of the conspiracy (i.e., foreseeable). The battery was committed in furtherance of the conspiracy (to keep the still in operation) and was foreseeable because the conspirators kept guns on the site in case of trouble with the law, and the wounding of a peace officer would be a "natural and probable" consequence. Thus, (B) is correct, and it follows that (A) must be incorrect. (C) is wrong because even if the conspiracy was terminated by Adam's arrest, the battery occurred before the arrest, when the conspiracy was 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

clearly ongoing. Bailey made no legally effective withdrawal prior to the battery, and he remains liable for Adam's act. (D) is wrong because, as discussed above, the battery was in furtherance of the objective of the conspiracy and a foreseeable consequence of the conspiracy.

\section{Answer to Question 5}

(B) The existence of adequate provocation may reduce a killing to voluntary manslaughter. Being subjected to a serious battery is frequently recognized as constituting adequate provocation. Here, the jury should decide whether being hit in the face with an umbrella qualifies. (A) is incorrect because a finding that Dent acted recklessly would not necessarily suffice to reduce the crime to voluntary manslaughter. Provocation is the key. (C) is incorrect because to the extent that Dent intended to kill or to cause serious bodily harm, he was acting in the wake of a sudden and intense passion that caused him to lose his self-control, which would make voluntary manslaughter applicable. (D) is incorrect because it is questionable whether Dent's taking of the money that had been left for the waitress constituted sufficient reason for the customer to hit him in the face with an umbrella. Thus, the jury should be allowed to consider voluntary manslaughter as an option.

\section{Answer to Question 6}

(B) The traditional M'Naghten rule provides that a defendant is entitled to acquittal if the proof establishes that: (a) a disease of the mind; (b) caused a defect of reason; (c) such that the defendant lacked the ability at the time of his actions to either: (i) know the wrongfulness of his actions; or (ii) understand the nature and quality of his actions. (B) is the best answer here, because this option goes directly to the wrongfulness issue and is supported by the facts, which indicate Brown's moral dilemma. His conclusion that direct orders from God overrode the general prohibition against killing indicates that Brown did not know the wrongfulness of his act. (A) and (C) are incorrect because the M'Naghten test speaks of nature and quality, and each of these options contains only one of these two elements. In addition, the facts are less likely to support an assertion that Brown was ignorant of either the nature or quality of his act than that he did not understand it was wrong. (D) is wrong because mental disease is but one element of the M'Naghten test. Acts that occur as a "product of mental disease or defect" fall under the insanity defense in jurisdictions that apply the Durham rule, which is substantially broader than $M$ 'Naghten.

\section{Answer to Question 7}

(B) The defendant is guilty of felony murder in this fact situation, since even an accidental killing committed during the course of a felony constitutes common law murder. Malice is implied from the intent to commit the underlying felony. Since defendant did have the requisite intent to commit the robbery with no defense to cut off liability, he would be liable at common law for the accidental death as well. (A) is wrong, since this fact situation would give the defendant a possible self-defense claim, and if that failed, it would be manslaughter, not common law murder. (C) is wrong because here there was no malice aforethought. At most, the defendant would be guilty of involuntary manslaughter. (D) is not as good a choice as $(B)$ because a jury could find that there was no malice aforethought. Defendant then would be guilty only of misdemeanor manslaughter while committing an "unlawful act," not common law murder.

\section{Answer to Question 8}

(B) Dutton would have to be acquitted because his actions did not cause the death of the child. (A) is wrong because the defendant's beliefs about his rights are irrelevant. If the child had died of malnutrition, the defendant's good faith belief concerning parental rights in supervising children would have been of no help to him. (C) is wrong because that reckless indifference did not cause the child's death. (D) is wrong because the child did not actually die from malnutrition.

\section{Answer to Question 9}

(C) Vance could not be convicted of actually violating the statute because he did not enter the property of another. However, since he was approaching the property with the requisite state of mind, he could be charged with attempting to violate that statute. (A) is wrong because the statute does not define an attempt crime. Entering onto the property of another is an affirmative action. (B) is wrong because entering the property of another with the intent to commit a crime of violence constitutes more than merely "having a guilty mind." (D) is wrong because it is overbroad and overly subjective.

\section{Answer to Question 10}

(C) Defendant's conduct qualifies as a killing with "an abandoned and malignant heart" because it exhibited a reckless indifference to the "very high" risk of death or serious injury. (A) is wrong because consent is not a defense to acts involving serious bodily injury. (B) is wrong because the misconduct of Adam is not a defense to homicide. (D) is wrong because the manslaughter statute requires that the killing be without malice. Here, malice is implied from Defendant's "abandoned and malignant heart."

\section{Answer to Question 11}

(D) Since the felony murder rule is not involved here, the only theory of first degree murder available would be that killing was "willful, deliberate, or premeditated." First degree murder requires an actual intent to kill, which Defendant lacked. (A) is wrong under common law. At common law, it was possible to convict a seven-year-old of a crime. Also, there is nothing under this statute to indicate that a 17-year-old could not be convicted of a crime. Nor is youthfulness (of a defendant over the age of 14) a legally recognized source of "mitigating" a criminal homicide to manslaughter. Hence, (C) is wrong. (B) is wrong because a revolver is a deadly weapon and intentional use of it would support an inference that Defendant intended to kill.

\section{Answer to Question 12}

(B) This is the best alternative. The choice as to whether this behavior is wanton or reckless (murder) or criminal or gross negligence (involuntary manslaughter) is best left to the jury. Hence, it would be wrong to instruct the jury "only" on involuntary manslaughter, and thus (A) is incorrect. (D) is wrong because the question relates to a Type A jurisdiction where murder is not divided into degrees. (C) is wrong as there is no way that Defendant would be guilty of voluntary manslaughter, which would involve an unjustified, unexcused but mitigated, intentional homicide. Defendant did not intend to kill or seriously injure.

\section{Answer to Question 13}

(A) This question tests your understanding of the "abandoned and malignant heart" terminology still found in many murder statutes. (B) is wrong because "assault with a deadly weapon" is not the "independent" or "collateral felony" required for the felony murder rule. (C) and (D) are wrong because they do not concern issues that would be the most relevant to the murder charges. Both of these cover responses to defenses raised by the defendant rather than a necessary element to be proved by the prosecutor. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

\section{Answer to Question 14}

(D) This answer covers all the possible ways to commit a first degree murder under a Type B statute (felony murder and premeditative or deliberate). Hence, both (A) and (B) are incomplete and wrong. (C) is wrong because consent of the victim will not excuse, mitigate, or reduce the level of a criminal homicide.

\section{Answer to Question 15}

(B) This is the only possible charge. Although the 17-year-old son is old enough to be "legally" responsible for a crime, he is still a minor, and the father's bragging about a loaded revolver in his room could be deemed contributory to his delinquency. At best, the father's act was "criminally" negligent, and therefore any liability on the father's part would not rise above the level of involuntary manslaughter. Therefore, $(\mathrm{C})$ is wrong; merely leaving a loaded gun about is not an "abandoned and malignant heart" situation. (D) is also wrong; the father did not kill Victor as a result of a sudden quarrel or in the heat of passion. (A) is wrong because the father did not assault anyone and also because the assault charge would merge into the murder charge.

\section{Answer to Question 16}

(A) The best defense is challenging the statute, because all of the other choices do not offer defenses. Linda's consent is irrelevant under the statute, as is her appearance of being older. Duke's intent is likewise irrelevant under this type of statute, which is a strict liability statute. Therefore, his only possible challenge is that the statute is void for vagueness because it does not apprise a defendant of which acts are proscribed.

\section{Answer to Question 17}

(D) This is a strict liability crime. Voluntary intoxication is no defense to crimes of strict liability because a defense that negates intent is not a defense to a strict liability crime. Thus, (D) is the correct answer and (A) is incorrect. (B) is misleading because voluntary intoxication is an insufficient defense to general intent offenses. (C) is irrelevant.

\section{Answer to Question 18}

(D) Adams is not guilty if he did not intend to achieve the objective of the conspiracy-i.e., to permanently deprive the owner of his property, since Adams thought that Curtis was the owner and that Nelson was improperly keeping the certificates from Curtis. (A) is incorrect because an agreement and overt act are insufficient for conspiracy if Adams did not have the intent to commit larceny. (B), while a correct statement of law, is irrelevant to the required specific intent element. The corrupt motive doctrine is a minority view requiring conspirators to know that their objective is illegal. However, $(\mathrm{C})$ is inapplicable to these facts since Adams had no intent to commit larceny.

\section{Answer to Question 19}

(C) The crime of conspiracy requires that each conspirator intend to achieve an unlawful goal. If the jury believes Bennett, he must be found not guilty because he did not intend to achieve an unlawful goal. (A) is therefore incorrect. (D) is incorrect because Bennett's act of prevention would not have excused the conspiracy if he had the proper mental state. (Note: The Model Penal Code recognizes such a defense.) (B) is incorrect because the privilege to apprehend criminals is not in issue here. 

\section{Answer to Question 20}

(D) If the jury believes both Adams and Bennett, neither could be guilty of conspiracy because of absence of intent. Therefore, Curtis could not be guilty of conspiracy at common law because there was never an agreement to achieve an unlawful purpose. (A) is wrong because there was never an agreement between two or more persons. (B) is incorrect because intent is but one element of conspiracy-there must also be an agreement. (C) is a nonsensical statement.

\section{Answer to Question 21}

(A) Case squib (A) is the most applicable. Case squib (A) illustrates that the state of mind required for larceny is satisfied when the defendant intends to deal with the property in a manner that involves a substantial risk of loss to the owner, such as intending to sell the property back to the owner or hold it until a reward is offered. In this question, Davis used the tools to break open a safe. While he probably never intended to keep the tools, he also never intended to return them either-he did not care whether the hardware store ever got the tools back. Thus, the charge of larceny here is based on an intent to deal with the property in a manner that involves a high risk of loss to the owner, just as in squib (A). Squib (B) is not as applicable because the decisive element there was the defendants' intent only to borrow the car and to return it within a reasonable time. Squibs (C) and (D) are inapplicable because they involved a taking by means of false representations, which is not the case here.

\section{Answer to Question 22}

(D) Squib (D) is the most applicable precedent. That squib establishes that the "trespassory" aspect of the taking is satisfied when the victim consents to defendant's taking possession of the property only as a result of defendant's misrepresentations. In this question, Vincent transferred possession of the \$ 500$ as a result of the false representations of Smith. Squib (C) is not applicable because it establishes that one obtaining title to property as a result of false representations is not guilty of larceny. Here, Vincent only transferred possession of the \$ 500$-he was expecting to receive a certificate of deposit for it.

\section{Answer to Question 23}

(B) Squib (B) is most applicable because it establishes that an intent to borrow another's property without permission for a short period of time is not sufficient for common law larceny. Here, Jones took the statuary with the intent to return it within a day or two. Despite his vindictive motive, Jones would not be liable for larceny if the jury decides that he did not intend to keep it for an unreasonable length of time. Regardless of the verdict, squib $(B)$ is the most applicable precedent. Squib (A) is not applicable because the defendants in that case were not planning to return the dog until the owner offered a reward, which is not the case here.

\section{Answer to Question 24}

(A) Squib (A) is most applicable. That case squib establishes that an intent to deal with another's property in any manner that creates a substantial risk of loss of the property is a sufficient intent for larceny. Here, Harris's conduct in pawning the property after taking it from the owner created a substantial risk of loss to the owner-enough to make Harris liable for larceny. Squib (B) is inappropriate because pawning the property negates any intent to return it. Squibs (C) and (D) are inapplicable because there were no misrepresentations in this case. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

\section{Answer to Question 25}

(C) Case squib (C) is most applicable because it establishes that common law larceny does not apply in the fact situation here. In squib (C), the decisive element is that the victim, Will, gave the cash to the defendant with the intent that he keep it (i.e., with the intent to convey title to the cash to defendant in exchange for possession of the apartment). As a result, defendant was not guilty of common law larceny of the cash because more than possession was transferred. Similarly, here Mark passed title to the money to Allison based on Allison's false representations. Squib (C) is therefore more applicable than squib (D) because (C) establishes that common law larceny does not apply in this case.

\section{Answer to Question 26}

(B) It seems clear from the facts that Ted has killed in self-defense. Even if striking Howard with the lamp were seen as the use of deadly force, it was necessary in response to the latter's use of deadly force. (A) is simply irrelevant. (C) might have been relevant to a defense for Howard if he had killed Ted, but it is irrelevant to the facts of this case. (D) is a misstatement of law.

\section{Answer to Question 27}

(B) Battery is a general intent crime that may be satisfied by a showing of recklessness or criminal negligence. (B) involves facts that are most clearly inconsistent with the defendant having any mental state whatever. Alternatively, (B) is to be preferred because it most clearly indicates that there was not a willed act, since convulsive acts are not considered to be voluntary. Even while in a hypnotic state, Defendant's striking Victim was a voluntary physical movement. (A) is therefore incorrect. (C) is wrong because voluntary intoxication is not a defense to crimes requiring recklessness. (D) is inapplicable because, although he was mistaken as to Victim's actions, Defendant willed himself to hit Victim.

\section{Answer to Question 28}

(C) Answer (A) is to be rejected because the request for the attorney means interrogation must cease and not that the attorney be produced immediately. In this case, interrogation had not yet begun. (B) is inapplicable since there is no suggestion that the arrest was unlawful. (D) is accurate but nonsensical. It is the introduction of the statement, not the fingerprints, that is in issue. The best answer is $(\mathrm{C})$, because truly volunteered statements are not the product of custodial interrogation.

\section{Answer to Question 29}

(C) It is clear that the taking was not achieved by the use of force, an element of robbery. (It would be different if Defendant had run down the victim with the intent to appropriate his property.) (A) and (B) are based on mistaken legal premises and are thus incorrect. The Defendant's motive is irrelevant, and larceny does not require a taking from a living person. (D) might be accurate at common law but modern statutes normally include documents as being property subject to larceny and thus, robbery.

\section{Answer to Question 30}

(A) Dan should be found guilty. The problem here is whether Dan caused Tom's death. Dan's act was not only the "but for" cause but also, since the death as it happened was the natural and foreseeable result, the "proximate" cause. The fact that other preexisting conditions contributed to the death does not absolve Dan. Therefore, (D) is incorrect. (B) is irrelevant to whether Dan committed murder. (C) is a misstatement of the facts relating to Tom's "serious" illness. Moreover, an act that hastens an inevitable result is still a legal cause of that result.

\section{Answer to Question 31}

(C) The statute defines assault as "an attempt to commit a battery." Attempts require the specific intent to commit the crime. We are told Edward had no such intent. Hence, $(\mathrm{C})$ is the best answer. Thus, (A) and (B) are incorrect. (D) is incorrect because an assault is an attempt to cause an offensive touching, and thus it would not be necessary for him to actually hit Margaret.

\section{Answer to Question 32}

(D) There is no doubt that Margaret committed a battery. Hence, (C) is to be rejected. The question is whether it was justified. Since she is permitted to use nondeadly force when she reasonably believes such is necessary to avoid the danger of harm from an aggressor and the facts indicate this was her position, the best answer is (D). (A) is incorrect because, even though her conduct was intentional, she has a defense of self-defense. (B) is incorrect because of her justification for the pushing.

\section{Answer to Question 33}

(C) A court, in enforcing a criminal statute, will construe legislative intent in assessing criminal liability. If a statute defines a crime in a way that necessarily involves more than one participant and provides for the liability of only one participant, it is presumed that the legislative intent was to immunize the other participant from liability as an accomplice (e.g., the buyer in an illegal sale of drugs is neither guilty of being an accessory to the sale nor in a conspiracy with the seller). Further, the rule of lenity requires that an ambiguous criminal statute must be strictly construed in favor of the defendant. (A) is wrong because those who provide inducement for a crime that requires two parties are not accessories. Further, Monroe was not an accessory at common law because accessories were not present when the crime was committed. (B) is wrong because Monroe is not the victim; the state is. (D) is wrong because Monroe did assist Professor Smith in violating the statute by offering him the \$ 50$.

\section{Answer to Question 34}

(C) Answer (A) is wrong because we are told Defendant did not have the requisite intent to steal. (B) is incorrect because Defendant's mistake may have gone to civil law-his right to use self-help in recovering a debt-rather than to the former type of mistake. (D) is to be rejected because of the facts; Defendant did not intend to steal the property of another. (C) is the best answer because Defendant's mistake is as to the coverage of the criminal law and that is not an excuse. 

\section{EVIDENCE QUESTIONS}