\section{Questions 1-3} are based on the following fact situation:

Sue owned a five-acre tract of land, one acre of which had previously been owned by Opal, but to which Sue had acquired title by adverse possession. Sue contracted to convey the full five-acre tract to Peg, but the contract did not specify the quality of title Sue would convey.


\section{1} Suppose Peg pays the purchase price and accepts a deed. Subsequently, Sue's title to the one acre proves inadequate and Opal ejects Peg from that acre. Peg sues Sue for damages. Which of the following statements applies most accurately to the determination of Peg's rights?
(A) Sue's deed was fraudulent.
(B) The terms of the deed control Sue's liability.
(C) The only remedy available for breach of warranty of title is rescission.
(D) Peg's rights are based on the implied covenants that the title conveyed shall be marketable.


\section{2} Suppose Sue's contract had called for the conveyance of "a good and marketable title." Pursuant to that contract, Peg paid the purchase price and accepted a deed from Sue containing no covenants of title. Sue's title to the one acre subsequently proved defective and Peg was ejected by Opal. Peg sued Sue. Which of the following results is most likely?
(A) Peg will win, because Sue's deed was fraudulent.
(B) Peg will win, because the terms of the deed control Sue's liability.
(C) Sue will win, because the terms of the deed control her liability.
(D) Sue will win, because the deed incor- porates the terms of the contract.


\section{3} Suppose that before closing, the house on the property had been totally destroyed by fire. In determining the rights of Sue and Peg, the court would most likely consider the doctrine of equitable:
(A) Marshaling.
(B) Sequestration.
(C) Subrogation.
(D) Conversion.

\section{Question 4}

Owens contracted to sell a tract of land, Overlea, to Painter by general warranty deed. However, at the closing Painter did not carefully examine the deed and accepted a quitclaim deed without covenants of title. Painter later attempted to sell Overlea to Thompson, who refused to perform because Owens had conveyed an easement for a highway across Overlea before Painter bought the property.

Painter sued Owens for damages. Which of the following arguments will most likely succeed in Owens's defense?
(A) The existence of the easement does not violate the contract.
(B) The mere existence of an easement that is not being used does not give rise to a cause of action.
(C) Painter's cause of action must be based on the deed and not on the contract.
(D) The proper remedy is rescission of the deed.

\section{Question 5}

Lord leased a warehouse building and the lot on which it stood to Taylor for a term of 10 years. The lease contained a clause prohibiting Taylor from subletting his interest.

Can Taylor assign his interest under the lease? 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}
(A) Yes, because restraints on alienation of land are strictly construed.
(B) Yes, because disabling restraints on alien- ation are invalid.
(C) No, because the term "subletting" includes "assignment" when the term is employed in a lease.
(D) No, because even in the absence of an express prohibition on assignment, a tenant may not assign without the landlord's permission.

\section{Question 6}

The following facts concern a tract of land in a state which follows general law. Each instrument is in proper form, recorded, marital property rights were waived when necessary, and each person named was adult and competent at the time of the named transaction.


\section{1} In 1940, Oleg, the owner, conveyed his interest in fee simple "to my brothers Bob and Bill, their heirs and assigns as joint tenants with right of survivorship."


\section{2} In 1950 Bob died, devising his interest to his only child, "Charles, for life, and then to Charles's son, Sam, for life, and then to Sam's children, their heirs and assigns."


\section{3} In 1970 Bill died, devising his interest "to my friend, Frank, his heirs and assigns."


\section{4} In 1972 Frank conveyed by quitclaim deed "to Paul, his heirs and assigns, whatever right, title, and interest I own."

Paul has never married. Paul has contracted to convey marketable record title in the land to Patrick. Can Paul do so?

(A) Yes, without joinder of any other person in the conveyance.

(B) Yes, if Charles, Sam, and Sam's only child (Gene, aged 25) will join in the conveyance. (C) No, regardless of who joins in the conveyance, because Sam may have additional children whose interests cannot be defeated.

(D) No, regardless of who joins in the conveyance, because a title acquired by quitclaim deed is impliedly unmarketable.



\section{Questions 7-8} are based on the following fact situation:

Oscar, the owner in fee simple, laid out a subdivision of 325 lots on 150 acres of land. He obtained governmental approval (as required by applicable ordinances) and, between 1968 and 1970 , he sold 140 of the lots, inserting in each of the 140 deeds the following provision:

The Grantee, for himself and his heirs, assigns and successors, covenants and agrees that the premises conveyed herein shall have erected thereon one singlefamily dwelling and that no other structure (other than a detached garage, normally incident to a single-family dwelling) shall be erected or maintained; and, further, that no use shall ever be made or permitted to be made other than occupancy by a single family for residential purposes only.

Because of difficulty encountered in selling the remaining lots for single-family use, in January 1971, Oscar advertised the remaining lots with prominent emphasis: "These lots are not subject to any restrictions and purchasers will find them adaptable to a wide range of uses."


\section{7} Payne had purchased one of the 140 lots and brought suit against Oscar to establish that the remaining 185 lots, as well as the 140 sold previously, can be used only for residential purposes by single families. Assuming that procedural requirements have been met, to permit adjudication of the issue Payne has tendered, which of the following is the most appropriate comment? (A) Oscar should win because the provision binds only the grantee.

(B) The outcome turns on whether a common development scheme had been established for the entire subdivision.

(C) The outcome turns on whether there are sufficient land areas devoted to multiple family uses within the municipality to afford reasonable opportunity for all economic classes to move into the area so as to satisfy the standards of equal protection of the law.

(D) Payne should win under an application of the doctrine, which requires construction of deeds, to resolve any doubt against the grantor.


\section{8} Suppose that Oscar sold 50 lots during 1971 without inserting in the deeds any provisions relating to structures or uses. Doyle purchased one of the 50 lots and proposes to erect a service station and to conduct a retail business for the sale of gasoline, etc.

Pringle purchased a lot from Boyer. Boyer had purchased from Oscar in 1968 and the deed had the provision that is quoted in the fact situation.

Pringle brings suit to prevent Doyle from erecting the service station and from conducting a retail business.

In the litigation between Pringle and Doyle, which of the following constitutes the best defense for Doyle?

(A) Oscar's difficulty in selling with provisions relating to use establishes a change in circumstances which renders any restrictions which may once have existed unenforceable.

(B) Enforcement of the restriction, in view of the change of circumstances, would be an unreasonable restraint on alienation. (C) Since the proof (as stated) does not establish a danger of monetary loss to Pringle, Pringle has failed to establish one of the necessary elements in a cause of action to prevent Doyle from using his lot for business purposes.

(D) The facts do not establish a common building or development scheme for the entire subdivision.

\section{Question 9}

Odum owned Brightacre (a tract of land) in fee simple. He conveyed it "to Pike, his heirs and assigns; but if Farley shall be living 30 years from the date of this deed, then to Farley, his heirs and assigns."

The limitation "to Farley, his heirs and assigns" is:
(A) Valid, because Farley's interest is a rever- sion.
(B) Valid, because the interest will vest, if at all, within a life in being.
(C) Valid, because Farley's interest is vested subject to divestment.
(D) Invalid.



\section{Questions 10-11} are based on the following fact situation:

Trease owned Hilltop in fee simple. By his will, he devised as follows: "Hilltop to such of my grandchildren who shall reach the age of 21 ; and by this provision I intend to include all grandchildren whenever born." At the time of his death, Trease had three children and two grandchildren.


\section{10} Courts hold such a devise valid under the common law Rule Against Perpetuities. What is the best explanation of that determination?
(A) All of Trease's children would be measuring lives.
(B) The rule of convenience closes the class of beneficiaries when any grand- child reaches the age of 21 . 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

(C) There is a presumption that Trease intended to include only those grandchildren born prior to his death.

(D) There is a subsidiary rule of construction that dispositive instruments are to be interpreted so as to uphold interests rather than to invalidate them under the Rule Against Perpetuities.


\section{11} Which of the following additions to or changes in the facts of the preceding question would produce a violation of the common law Rule Against Perpetuities?
(A) A posthumous child was born to Trease.
(B) Trease's will expressed the intention to include all afterborn grandchildren in the gift.
(C) The instrument was an inter vivos conveyance rather than a will.
(D) Trease had no grandchildren living at the time of his death.

\section{Question 12}

Assume for the purposes of this question that you are counsel to the state legislative committee that is responsible for real estate laws in your state. The committee wants you to draft a statute, governing the recording of deeds, that fixes priorities of title, as reflected on the public record, as definitely as possible.

Which of the following, divorced from other policy considerations, would best accomplish this particular result?
(A) Eliminate the requirement of witnesses to deeds.
(B) Make time of recording the controlling factor.
(C) Make irrebuttable the declarations in the deeds that valuable consideration was paid.
(D) Make the protection of bona fide purchas- ers the controlling factor.



\section{Questions 13-15} are based on the following fact situation:

Owen held in fee simple Farmdale, a large tract of vacant land. The state wherein Farmdale is situated has a statute which provides, in substance, that unless the conveyance is recorded, every deed or other conveyance of an interest in land is void as to a subsequent purchaser who pays value without notice of such conveyance. The following transactions occurred in the order given.

First: Owen conveyed Farmdale, for a fair price, to Allred by general warranty deed. Allred did not immediately record.

Second: Owen executed a mortgage to secure repayment of a loan concurrently made to Owen by Leon. Leon had no notice of the prior conveyance to Allred and promptly recorded the mortgage.

Third: Owen, by general warranty deed, gratuitously conveyed to Niece, who promptly recorded the deed.

Fourth: Allred recorded his deed from Owen.

Fifth: $\quad$ Niece, by general warranty deed, conveyed Farmdale to Barrett. Barrett had no actual notice of any of the prior transactions, paid full value, and promptly recorded the deed.


\section{13} Asserting that his title was held free of any claim by Barrett, Allred instituted suit against Barrett to quiet title to Farmdale. If Barrett prevails, it will be because:
(A) Allred's prior recorded deed is deemed to be outside Barrett's chain of title.
(B) Barrett's grantor, Niece, recorded before Allred.
(C) As between two warranty deeds, the later one controls.


\section{ Barrett's grantor, Niece, had no notice of Allred's rights} Asserting that his title was held free of any claim by Leon, Allred instituted suit against Leon to quiet title to Farmdale. Judgment should be for:

(A) Allred, because Leon is deemed not to have paid value.

(B) Allred, because a mortgagee is not a subsequent purchaser within the meaning of the statute mentioned.

(C) Leon, because he recorded before Allred.

(D) Leon, because he advanced money without notice of Allred's rights.


\section{15} Assume for this question only that Niece had not conveyed to Barrett. After Allred recorded his deed from Owen, Allred, asserting that Allred's title was held free of any claim by Niece, instituted suit against Niece to recover title to Farmdale. Judgment should be for:

(A) Niece, because she had no notice of Allred's rights when she accepted the deed from Owen.

(B) Niece, because she recorded her deed before Allred recorded his.

(C) Allred, because Niece was not a bona fide purchaser who paid value.

(D) Allred, because he had paid value for Farmdale and had no actual or constructive notice of the deed to Niece.



\section{Questions 16-17} are based on the following fact situation:

Ogden was the fee simple owner of three adjoining vacant lots fronting on a common street in a primarily residential section of a city which had no zoning laws. The lots were identified as Lots 1, 2, and 3. Ogden conveyed Lot 1 to Akers and Lot 2 to Bell. Ogden retained Lot 3, which consisted of three acres of woodland. Bell, whose lot was between the other two, built a house on his lot. Bell's house included a large window on the side facing Lot 3 . The window provided a beautiful view from Bell's living room, thereby adding value to Bell's house.

Akers erected a house on his lot. Ogden made no complaint to either Akers or Bell concerning the houses they built. After both Akers and Bell had completed their houses, the two of them agreed to and did build a common driveway running from the street to the rear of their respective lots. The driveway was built on the line between the two houses so that one-half of the way was located on each lot. Akers and Bell exchanged right-of-way deeds by which each of them conveyed to the other, his heirs and assigns, an easement to continue the right of way. Both deeds were properly recorded.

After Akers and Bell had lived in their respective houses for 30 years, a new public street was built bordering on the rear of Lots 1, 2, and 3 . Akers informed Bell that, since the new street removed the need for their common driveway, he considered the right-of-way terminated; therefore, he intended to discontinue its use and expected Bell to do the same. At about the same time, Ogden began the erection of a six-story apartment house on Lot 3 . If the apartment house is completed, it will block the view from Bell's window and will substantially reduce the value of Bell's lot.


\section{16} In an action brought by Bell to enjoin Akers from interfering with Bell's continued use of the common driveway between the two lots, the decision should be for:

(A) Akers, because the termination of the necessity for the easement terminated the easement.

(B) Akers, because the continuation of the easement after the change of circumstances would adversely affect the marketability of both lots without adding any commensurate value to either. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

(C) Bell, because an incorporeal hereditament lies in grant and cannot be terminated without a writing.

(D) Bell, because the removal of the need for the easement created by express grant does not affect the right to the easement.


\section{17} In an action brought by Bell to enjoin Ogden from erecting the apartment building in such a way as to obstruct the view from Bell's living room window, the decision should be for:

(A) Bell, because Ogden's proposed building would be an obstruction of Bell's natural right to an easement for light and air.

(B) Bell, because Bell was misled by Ogden's failure to complain when Bell was building his house.

(C) Ogden if, but only if, it can be shown that Ogden's intention to erect such a building was made known to Bell at or prior to the time of Ogden's conveyance to Bell.

(D) Ogden, because Bell has no easement for light, air, or view.

\section{Question 18}

Morgan conveyed Greenacre, her one-family residence, to "Perez for life, remainder to

Rowan, her heirs and assigns, subject, however, to First Bank's mortgage thereon." There was an unpaid balance on the mortgage of \$ 10,000$, which is payable in \$ 1,000$ annual installments plus interest at $6 \%$ on the unpaid balance, with the next payment due on July 1 . Perez is now occupying Greenacre. The reasonable rental value of the property exceeds the sum necessary to meet all current charges. There is no applicable statute.

Under the rules governing contributions between life tenants and remaindermen, how should the burden for payment be allocated? (A) Rowan must pay the principal payment, but Perez must pay the interest to First Bank.

(B) Rowan must pay both the principal and interest payments to First Bank.

(C) Perez must pay both the principal and interest payments to First Bank.

(D) Perez must pay the principal payment, but Rowan must pay the interest to First Bank.

\section{Question 19}

Anders conveyed her only parcel of land to Burton by a duly executed and delivered warranty deed, which provided:

To have and to hold the described tract of land in fee simple, subject to the understanding that within one year from the date of the instrument said grantee shall construct and thereafter maintain and operate on said premises a public health center.

The grantee, Burton, constructed a public health center on the tract within the time specified and operated it for five years. At the end of this period, Burton converted the structure into a senior citizens' recreational facility. It is considered by all parties in interest that a senior citizens' recreational facility is not a public health center.

In an appropriate action, Anders seeks a declaration that the change in the use of the facility has caused the land and structure to revert to her. In this action, Anders should:

(A) Win, because the language of the deed created a determinable fee, which leaves a possibility of reverter in the grantor.

(B) Win, because the language of the deed created a fee subject to condition subsequent, which leaves a right of entry or power of termination in the grantor. (C) Lose, because the language of the deed created only a contractual obligation and did not provide for retention of property interest by the grantor.

(D) Lose, because an equitable charge is enforceable only in equity.

\section{Question 20}

Homer conveyed his home to his wife Wanda, for life, remainder to his daughter, Dixie. There was a \$ 20,000$ mortgage on the home, requiring monthly payment covering interest to date plus a portion of the principal.

Which of the following statements about the monthly payment is correct?

(A) Wanda must pay the full monthly payment.

(B) Wanda must pay a portion of the monthly payment based on an apportionment of the value between Wanda's life estate and Dixie's remainder.

(C) Wanda must pay the portion of the monthly payment that represents interest.

(D) Dixie must pay the full monthly payment.



\section{Questions 21-22} are based on the following fact situation:

The owner of Newacre executed and delivered to a power company a right-of-way deed for the building and maintenance of an overhead power line across Newacre. The deed was properly recorded. Newacre then passed through several intermediate conveyances until it was conveyed to Sloan about 10 years after the date of the right-of-way deed. All the intermediate deeds were properly recorded, but none of them mentioned the right-of-way.

Sloan entered into a written contract to sell Newacre to Jones. By the terms of the contract, Sloan promised to furnish an abstract of title to Jones. Sloan contracted directly with Abstract Company to prepare and deliver an abstract to Jones, and Abstract Company did so. The abstract omitted the right-of-way deed. Jones delivered the abstract to his attorney and asked the attorney for an opinion as to title. The attorney signed and delivered to Jones a letter stating that, from the attorney's examination of the abstract, it was his "opinion that Sloan had a free and unencumbered marketable title to Newacre."

Sloan conveyed Newacre to Jones by a deed which included covenants of general warranty and against encumbrances. Jones paid the full purchase price. After Jones had been in possession of Newacre for more than a year, he learned about the right-of-way deed. Sloan, Jones, Abstract Company, and Jones's attorney were all without actual knowledge of the existence of the right-of-way prior to the conveyance from Sloan to Jones.


\section{21} If Jones sues Abstract Company for damages caused to Jones by the presence of the right-of-way, the most likely result will be a decision for:

(A) Jones, because Jones was a thirdparty creditor beneficiary of the contract between Sloan and Abstract Company.

(B) Jones, because the abstract prepared by Abstract Company constitutes a guarantee of Jones's title to Newacre.

(C) Abstract Company, because Abstract Company had no knowledge of the existence of the right-of-way.

(D) Abstract Company, because there was no showing that any fraud was practiced upon Jones.


\section{22} If Jones sues Sloan because of the presence of the right-of-way, the most likely result will be a decision for:

(A) Jones, because Sloan is liable for his negligent misrepresentation.

(B) Jones, because the covenants in Sloan's deed to Jones have been breached. (C) Sloan, because Jones relied upon Abstract Company, not Sloan, for information concerning title.

(D) Sloan, because Sloan was without knowledge of any defects in the title to Newacre.

\section{Question 23}

Testator devised his farm "to my son, Selden, for life, then to Selden's children and their heirs and assigns." Selden, a widower, had two unmarried adult children.

In an appropriate action to construe the will, the court will determine that the remainder to the children is:
(A) Indefeasibly vested.
(B) Contingent.
(C) Vested subject to partial defeasance.
(D) Vested subject to complete defeasance.



\section{Questions 24-25} are based on the following fact situation:

Ohner holds title in fee simple to a tract of 1,500 acres. He desires to develop the entire tract as a golf course, country club, and residential subdivision. He contemplates forming a corporation to own and to operate the golf course and country club; the stock in the corporation will be distributed to the owners of lots in the residential portions of the subdivision, but no obligation to issue the stock is to ripen until all the residential lots are sold. The price of the lots is intended to return enough money to compensate Ohner for the raw land, development costs (including the building of the golf course and the country club facilities), and developer's profit, if all of the lots are sold.

Ohner's market analyses indicate that he must create a scheme of development that will offer prospective purchasers (and their lawyers) a very high order of assurance that several aspects will be clearly established:


\section{1} Aside from the country club and golf course, there will be no land use other than for residential use and occupancy in the 1,500 acres.


\section{2} The residents of the subdivision will have unambiguous right of access to the club and golf course facilities.


\section{3} Each lot owner must have an unambiguous right to transfer his lot to a purchaser with all original benefits.


\section{4} Each lot owner must be obligated to pay annual dues to a pro rata share (based on the number of lots) of the club's annual operating deficit (whether or not such owner desires to make use of club and course facilities).


\section{24} In the context of all aspects of the scheme, which of the following will offer the best chance of implementing the requirement that each lot owner pay annual dues to support the club and golf course?
(A) Covenant.
(B) Easement.
(C) Mortgage.
(D) Personal contractual obligation by each purchaser.


\section{25} Of the following, the greatest difficulty that will be encountered in establishing the scheme is that:

(A) Any judicial recognition will be construed as state action which, under current doctrines, raises a substantial question whether such action would be in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment.

(B) The scheme, if effective, renders title unmarketable. (C) One or more of the essential aspects outlined by Ohner will result in a restraint on alienation.

(D) There is a judicial reluctance to recognize an affirmative burden to pay money in installments and over an indefinite period as a burden that can be affixed to bind future owners of land.

\section{Question 26}

Oaks, the owner of Blackacre, conveyed a right-of-way to United Utility "for the underground transportation of gas by pipeline, the location of right-of-way to be mutually agreed upon by Oaks and United Utility." United Utility then installed a six-inch pipeline at a location selected by it and not objected to by Oaks. Two years later, United Utility advised Oaks of its intention to install an additional six-inch pipeline parallel to and three feet laterally from the original pipeline. In an appropriate action, Oaks sought a declaration that United Utility has no right to install the second pipeline.

If Oaks prevails, it will be because:

(A) Any right implied to expand the original use of the right-of-way creates an interest that violates the Rule Against Perpetuities.

(B) The original installation by United Utility defined the scope of the easement.

(C) Oaks did not expressly agree to the location of the right-of-way.

(D) The assertion of the right to install an additional pipeline constitutes inverse condemnation.

\section{Question 27}

Martinez, a widower, owns in fee simple a ranch, Ranchacre. Martinez has one child, Enrique, who is married. Enrique has one child, Ana Maria, who is also married but has no children. In an effort to dispose of Ranchacre to his descendants and to honor a request by Ana Maria that she be skipped in any such disposition, Martinez conveys Ranchacre to his son, Enrique, for life with the remainder to Ana Maria's children in fee simple.

What interest, if any, is created in favor of Ana Maria's unborn children at the time of the conveyance?
(A) A contingent remainder.
(B) A vested remainder subject to divestment.
(C) A springing use.
(D) None.

\section{Question 28}

While hospitalized, Marsh requested her attorney to draw a deed conveying her home to her son, Simon. While Marsh remained in the hospital, the deed was drawn, properly executed, and promptly and properly recorded. On being informed of the existence of the deed, Simon told his mother, "I want no part of the property; take the deed right back." Marsh recovered and left the hospital, but shortly thereafter, before any other relevant event, Simon died intestate.

Marsh brought an appropriate action against Simon's heirs to determine title.

If Marsh wins, it will be because:
(A) The court will impose a constructive trust to carry out the intent of the deceased son.
(B) The presumption of delivery arising from the recording is not valid unless the grantee has knowledge at the time of the recording.
(C) Simon's declaration was a constructive reconveyance of the land.
(D) There was no effective acceptance of delivery of the deed. 

\section{Question 29}

Andres conveyed Applewood Farm "to Bogatz, her heirs and assigns, so long as the premises are used for residential and farm purposes, then to Cohen and his heirs."' The common law Rule Against Perpetuities, unmodified by statute, is part of the law of the jurisdiction in which Applewood Farm is located.

As a consequence of the conveyance, Cohen's interest in Applewood Farm is:
(A) Nothing.
(B) A valid executory interest.
(C) A possibility of reverter.
(D) A right of entry for condition broken.

\section{Question 30}

Metterly, the owner in fee simple of Brownacre, by quitclaim deed conveyed Brownacre to her daughter, Doris, who paid no consideration for the conveyance. The deed was never recorded. About a year after the delivery of the deed, Metterly decided that this gift had been ill-advised. She requested that Doris destroy the deed, which Doris dutifully and voluntarily did. Within the month following the destruction of the deed, Metterly and Doris were killed in a common disaster. Each of the successors in interest claimed title to Brownacre.

In an appropriate action to determine the title to Brownacre, the probable outcome will be that:

(A) Metterly was the owner of Brownacre, because Doris was a donee and therefore could not acquire title by quitclaim deed.

(B) Metterly was the owner of Brownacre, because title to Brownacre reverted to her upon the voluntary destruction of the deed by Doris. (C) Doris was the owner of Brownacre, because her destruction of the deed to Brownacre was under the undue influence of Metterly.

(D) Doris was the owner of Brownacre, because the deed was merely evidence of her title, and its destruction was insufficient to cause title to pass back to Metterly.

\section{Question 31}

By her validly executed will, Sallie devised a certain tract of land to her son, Ben, for his life with remainder to such of Ben's children as should be living at his death, "Provided, however, that no such child of Ben shall mortgage or sell, or attempt to mortgage or sell, his or her interest in the property prior to attaining 25 years of age; and, if any such child of Ben shall violate this provision, then upon such violation his or her interest shall pass to and become the property of the remaining children of Ben then living, share and share alike."

Sallie's will included an identical provision for each of her four other children concerning four other tracts of land. The residuary clause of the will gave the residuary estate to Sallie's five children equally. Sallie died and was survived by the five children named in her will and by 11 grandchildren. Several additional grandchildren have since been born.

In an action for a declaration of rights, it was claimed that the attempted gifts to Sallie's grandchildren were entirely void and that the interests following the life estates to Sallie's children passed to the children absolutely by the residuary clause.

Assuming that the action was properly brought with all necessary parties and with a guardian ad litem appointed to represent the interests of unborn and infant grandchildren, the decision should be that:

(A) The attempted gifts to grandchildren are void under the Rule Against Perpetuities.

(B) The attempted gifts to grandchildren are void as unlawful restraints on alienation. (C) The provisions concerning grandchildren are valid and will be upheld according to their terms.

(D) Even if the provisions against sale or mortgage by the grandchildren are void, the remainders to grandchildren are otherwise valid and will be given effect.



\section{Questions 32-33} are based on the following fact situation:

Meadowview is a large tract of undeveloped land. Black, the owner of Meadowview, prepared a development plan creating 200 house lots in Meadowview with the necessary streets and public areas. The plan was fully approved by all necessary governmental agencies and duly recorded. However, construction of the streets, utilities, and other aspects of the development of Meadowview has not yet begun, and none of the streets can be opened as public ways until they are completed in accordance with the applicable ordinances of the municipality in which Meadowview is located.

College Avenue, one of the streets laid out as part of the Meadowview development, abuts Whiteacre, an adjacent one-acre parcel owned by White. Whiteacre has no access to any public way except an old, poorly developed road which is inconvenient and cannot be used without great expense. White sold Whiteacre to Breyer. The description used in the deed from White to Breyer was the same as that used in prior deeds except that the portion of the description which formerly said, "thence by land of Black, northeasterly a distance of 200 feet, more or less," was changed to "thence by College Avenue as laid out on the Plan of Meadowview North $16^{\circ}$ East $201.6$ feet," with full reference to the plan and as recording data.

Breyer now seeks a building permit which will show that Breyer intends to use College Avenue for access to Whiteacre. Black objects to the granting of a building permit on the grounds that he has never granted any rights to White or Breyer to use College Avenue. There are no governing statutes or ordinances relating to the problem. Black brings an appropriate action in which the right of Breyer to use College Avenue without an express grant from Black is at issue.


\section{32} The best argument for Black in this action is that:

(A) Breyer's right must await the action of appropriate public authorities to open College Avenue as a public street, since no private easements arose by implication.

(B) The Statute of Frauds prevents the introduction of evidence which might prove the necessity for Breyer to use College Avenue.

(C) Breyer's right to use College Avenue is restricted to the assertion of a way by necessity and the facts preclude the success of such a claim.

(D) Breyer would be unjustly enriched if he were permitted to use College Avenue.


\section{33} The best argument for Breyer in this action is that:

(A) There is a way by necessity over Meadowview's lands to gain access to a public road.

(B) The deed from White to Breyer referred to the recorded plan and therefore created rights to use the streets delineated on the plan.

(C) Sale of lots in Meadowview by reference to its plan creates private easements in the streets shown on the plan.

(D) The recording of the plan is a dedication of the streets shown on the plan to public use. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

\section{Question 34}

Lester, the owner in fee simple of a small farm consisting of 30 acres of land improved with a house and several outbuildings, leased the same to Tanner for a 10 -year period. After two years had expired, the government condemned 20 acres of the property and allocated the compensation award to Lester and Tanner according to their respective interest so taken. It so happened, however, that the 20 acres taken embraced all of the farm's tillable land, leaving only the house, outbuildings, and a small woodlot. There is no applicable statute in the jurisdiction where the property is located nor any provision in the lease relating to condemnation. Tanner quit possession and Lester brought suit against him to recover rent.

Lester will: (A) Lose, because there has been a frustration of purpose which excuses Tanner from further performance of his contract to pay rent.

(B) Lose, because there has been a breach of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment by Lester's inability to provide Tanner with possession of the whole of the property for the entire term.

(C) Win, because of the implied warranty on the part of the tenant to return the demised premises in the same condition at the end of the term as they were at the beginning.

(D) Win, because the relationship of landlord and tenant was unaffected by the condemnation, thus leaving Tanner still obligated to pay rent. 

\section{REAL PROPERTY ANSWERS}

\section{Answer to Question 1}

(B) Every land sale contract (not deed) contains an implied warranty of marketable title. For bar examination purposes, title acquired by adverse possession is unmarketable. However, the buyer's acceptance of a deed discharges the seller's contractual obligation to furnish marketable title, and leaves the buyer with remedies only on the covenants in the deed. (D) is wrong because a deed contains no implied covenant of marketability. (A) is wrong because it is not supported by the facts, and (C) is an incorrect statement of law; a buyer can choose to rescind, sue for damages for breach, get specific performance with abatement of the purchase price, or, in some jurisdictions, require the seller to quiet title.

\section{Answer to Question 2}

(C) Acceptance of a deed discharges the seller's liability on the contract. Since the deed here contained no covenants of title, it was a quitclaim deed. Conveyances under a quitclaim deed give the buyer only that which the seller owns. If Sue did not own the one acre she believed that she had acquired by adverse possession, then her quitclaim deed conveyed only the four remaining acres to Peg. Thus, Peg cannot prevail and (B) and (D) are wrong. (A) is not supported by the facts.

\section{Answer to Question 3}

(D) Once a land sale contract is signed, the doctrine of equitable conversion applies, making the buyer the equitable owner of the property. Under the majority view, the risk of loss then rests on the buyer; Peg must pay the purchase price. Thus, (D) is correct and the other choices are incorrect. Note that if Sue had insured the house for loss by fire, most courts would require her to give Peg credit, in the amount of the insurance proceeds, against the purchase price.

\section{Answer to Question 4}

(C) Painter's acceptance of the deed constituted a discharge of Owens's liability on the contract. A quitclaim deed contains no warranties and conveys only what the seller owns-here, property encumbered by an easement. Therefore, (C) is correct and (D) is inapplicable since there was no breach. (A) and (B) are not valid defenses, since existence of the easement was violative of the contract. The contract contained an implied warranty of marketable title, which generally means an unencumbered fee simple with good record title. An easement is an encumbrance. Note that if Owens had conveyed a general warranty deed to Painter, it would have contained a covenant against encumbrances.

\section{Answer to Question 5}

(A) Anti-transfer covenants are strictly construed; therefore, a prohibition against subleasing does not prevent assignment, and (C) is thus incorrect. (D) is wrong because an anti-assignment covenant must be express. Regarding (B), disabling restraints on a legal interest are always void. However, lease provisions restricting assignments and subleases are valid restraints. These are considered promissory restraints, breach of which will void an attempted assignment or transfer. Thus, (B) is wrong.

\section{Answer to Question 6}

(A) Oleg expressly conveyed a fee simple to Bob and Bill as joint tenants with the right of survivorship. Since the joint tenancy was not severed, Bill became the owner in fee simple at the instant 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

of Bob's death. Bob's will was not effective until his death, at which time he no longer had an interest in the property; the act of making a will containing a testamentary devise of the land is not sufficient to sever the joint tenancy. Hence, Bob's attempt to devise his interest was inoperative, and (B) and (C) are thus incorrect. (D) is wrong because conveyance by quitclaim deed does not render title unmarketable.

\section{Answer to Question 7}

(B) If Oscar had a scheme for an exclusively residential subdivision, the court could imply a reciprocal negative servitude limiting the remaining lots to the same use. Reciprocal negative servitudes are implied only when the sales begin. Since all 140 lots already sold contain the covenant restricting the land use to single-family residential dwellings, a common scheme will be implied. Any subsequent purchaser will be bound by the covenant if there was notice. The appearance of an area containing only single-family residences is sufficient to constitute inquiry notice. Hence, (A) is wrong. (C) is incorrect because covenants are a private land use control. (D) is wrong because the issue does not concern construction of the deeds.

\section{Answer to Question 8}

(D) If Oscar had no uniform development scheme, there is no basis for implying a residential restriction in Doyle's deed. (A) is not the best defense because selling difficulties probably do not establish changes such as would render enforcement of the covenants inequitable. (B) is wrong because restraints upon use (as opposed to restraints upon alienation) of land are valid and enforceable. (C) is wrong because monetary loss is irrelevant in an action to establish an implied equitable servitude.

\section{Answer to Question 9}

(B) Pike had a fee simple subject to a shifting executory interest in Farley. If Farley lives 30 more years, the fee simple will shift to him. Therefore, (B) is correct and (D) is wrong. The Rule Against Perpetuities requires that the interest vest, if at all, within 21 years after a life in being and, using Farley's life as the measuring life, it is clear that his interest will vest, if at all, within his lifetime. (A) is wrong because a reversion occurs by operation of law when a grantor conveys less than the entire estate. Here, Odum transferred a fee simple in Brightacre to either Pike or Farley; there was no interest left to revert to Odum. (C) is wrong because an executory interest is not vested.

\section{Answer to Question 10}

(A) The class of Trease's grandchildren would close at the death of his last surviving child, who was necessarily a life in being at Trease's death (when the gift took effect); the gift would then vest (or fail) within 21 years thereafter. (C) is wrong because the express language of the will controls. The rule of convenience is used to determine when a class closes only absent an express intent to include all persons described no matter when born. Since Trease expressed such an intention, the rule is inapplicable and (B) is incorrect. (D) is wrong because the gift is valid without resort to preferential rules of construction.

\section{Answer to Question 11}

(C) If Trease had made the gift by inter vivos conveyance, he might have had another child thereafter who would not have been a life in being at the creation of the interest (and whose children might have reached 21 after the permissible perpetuities period). (A) is wrong because the Rule Against Perpetuities allows for periods of gestation. (B) is wrong because it changes nothing; the will already expresses an intention to include afterborn grandchildren. Further, (B) and (D) are wrong because all of Trease's grandchildren would be born to his children, who were lives in being at his death.

\section{Answer to Question 12}

(B) Priorities based on time of recording would protect most persons obtaining an interest in land that is timely recorded. Since the purpose of recordation is to give notice to others of a conveyance of title, prospective purchasers could easily determine the status of the title. Furthermore, priorities based on recording generally protect bona fide purchasers. (D) is wrong because simply protecting bona fide purchasers would not assure an accurate reflection of priority of title on the public record (e.g., "notice" statutes). (A) and (C) alone have no bearing on priority of title. Moreover, they are misstatements of law; witnesses to a deed are generally unnecessary and no recital of consideration is required for a valid deed.

\section{Answer to Question 13}

(A) A subsequent grantee has constructive knowledge of all prior recorded deeds except those outside of his chain of title. (B) and (D) are wrong because Niece's recordation would be relevant only if she had been a bona fide purchaser who could "shelter" Barrett. Under the shelter rule, a person who takes from a bona fide purchaser will prevail against any interest that the bona fide purchaser would have prevailed against-even if the grantee knew of the prior unrecorded interest. However, donees are not bona fide purchasers and thus, are not protected. (C) is wrong because the state statute governs priority of title.

\section{Answer to Question 14}

(D) Leon will prevail because he had no actual or constructive notice of the conveyance to Allred, since it was not recorded at the time of the mortgage. A mortgagee who gives a concurrent loan is considered a purchaser for value within state recording acts. Hence, (A) and (B) are incorrect. (C) is wrong because the statute is a pure notice statute, which does not require that the subsequent purchaser be the first to record to protect his rights against a prior purchaser.

\section{Answer to Question 15}

(C) Judgment should be for Allred. Under the statute, unrecorded conveyances are void only as against bona fide purchasers. Since Niece took by a gratuitous conveyance, her prior recordation without notice is irrelevant. Thus, (A) and (B) are incorrect because Niece is not protected by the recording statute. (D) is incorrect because, absent a bona fide purchaser, priority is determined by the first-in-time rule.

\section{Answer to Question 16}

(D) Because the easement was validly created and recorded, the removal of the need for the easement does not affect the continuing right to the easement. (A) is wrong because there is no such automatic termination. If the parties had failed validly to create the easement in this case, a court might still have found an easement by necessity. If that had been the case, the end of the necessity would result in the expiration of the easement. But that was not the case here. Because an easement was created and recorded, the fact that the easement is no longer necessary has no 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

bearing on its continued existence. The easement could be terminated by release or abandonment, but Bell does not wish to terminate the easement. (B) is wrong because an easement is a right that exists even if it adversely affects the marketability of land. (C) is wrong because easements can be terminated in ways other than by a writing. For example, Bell could abandon his easement by long nonuse accompanied by intent to abandon.

\section{Answer to Question 17}

(D) Bell has no claim because he had no easement for light, air, or view. (A) is wrong because there is no "natural right" to an easement for light and air. (B) is wrong because Bell's building of his house has no relationship to whether an easement for light and air was created. (C) is wrong because even if Ogden had no plans, at the time of his conveyance to Bell, to erect such a building, no easement for light and air would automatically be created. Bell could have requested and could have been granted an easement for light, air, or view, but there is no evidence that he did so.

\section{Answer to Question 18}

(A) A life tenant is obligated to pay interest on any encumbrances to the extent of the income or profits from the land. He does not, however, have to pay anything on the principal. The remainderman, here Rowan, must pay off the principal in order to protect her own interests. (B) is wrong because Rowan is only liable for the principal. (C) is wrong because Perez is only liable for the interest payments. (D) is wrong because it reverses the duties of the life tenant and the remainderman.

\section{Answer to Question 19}

(C) Anders could have constructed a deed such that she would have retained a property interest in the parcel of land, but she did not do so. Rather, she only created a contractual obligation which was met in the first five years after the conveyance. Because she retained no property interest, she has no claim to the land. (A) is wrong because this could have been a determinable fee only if durational language, such as "for as long as," "while," "during," or "until," had been used in the deed. Because it was not, no possibility of reverter was created in Anders. (B) is wrong because the grantor did not reserve the right to terminate the grantee's estate on the happening of a specified condition subsequent, and thus reserved no right of entry for condition broken. (D) is wrong because it has been stated that Anders has instituted an appropriate action, so it is assumed that she is in the proper court. In any event, the contract or covenant obligation of Burton would probably be enforceable both at law (for damages) and in equity (for an injunction). In most jurisdictions today the same court could order either remedy.

\section{Answer to Question 20}

(C) The application of a basic allocation rule is involved here. A life tenant is obligated to pay interest on any encumbrances on the land to the extent of the income or profits from the land (or in their absence to the extent of the reasonable rental value of the land). However, she does not have to pay anything on the principal of the debt: reversioners or remaindermen must pay the principal in order to protect their interests. Thus, $(\mathrm{C})$ is correct because it applies the rule correctly. (A) is incorrect because Dixie must make the portion of the monthly payment allocated to principal. (B) is wrong because the allocation between life tenant and remainderman is a simple allocation between interest and principal and hence the actual value of the life estate and the remainder are not considered. (D) is wrong because Wanda must make the portion of the monthly payment allocated to interest.

\section{Answer to Question 21}

(A) Jones was the intended third-party creditor beneficiary of the contract between Sloan and the Abstract Company to prepare and deliver the abstract. Abstract Company is liable because it failed to uncover the existence of the right-of-way deed which was in the chain of title. Jones should recover because he was the intended beneficiary. (B) is wrong because Abstract Company is liable on breach of its contract to describe accurately the state of the record title. It gave no title guarantee. (C) is wrong because, while Abstract Company may have had no actual knowledge of the deed, it had a contractual duty to find any encumbrances in the record chain of title. (D) is wrong because fraud is not necessary for a showing of breach of contract.

\section{Answer to Question 22}

(B) Sloan conveyed a deed including covenants of general warranty and against encumbrances. Because an encumbrance exists in the form of the right-of-way, Sloan is in breach of the covenant against encumbrances. (A) is wrong because Sloan was diligent in his attempt to establish clear title through the Abstract Company. (C) is wrong because it was Sloan and not the Abstract Company which actually made the covenant against encumbrances. (D) is wrong because Sloan covenanted that there were no encumbrances at all. It makes no difference whether he had any actual knowledge of such encumbrances.

\section{Answer to Question 23}

(C) Because the remainder is created in a class of persons (i.e., Selden's children) that is certain to take on the termination of the preceding estate, but is subject to diminution by reason of other persons becoming entitled to share in the remainder (i.e., additional children that Selden could sire), the remainder is vested subject to partial defeasance (or divestment). This is also sometimes called a vested remainder subject to open. (A) is wrong because an indefeasibly vested remainder must not be subject to being diminished in size, which could be the case if Selden has more children. (B) is incorrect because the remainder here is not subject to a condition precedent or in favor of unborn or unascertained persons. Hence, it is not contingent. (D) is wrong because a vested remainder subject to complete defeasance arises when the remainderman is in existence and ascertained and his right to possession and enjoyment is subject to being defeated by the happening of some condition subsequent. Under the facts, Selden's children or their heirs under all circumstances will be entitled to a portion of the fee.

\section{Answer to Question 24}

(A) A covenant is the best choice because a real covenant, normally found in deeds, is a written promise to do something on the land or a promise not to do something on the land. Real covenants run with the land at law, which means that subsequent owners of the land may enforce or be burdened by the covenant. In cases where the covenant involves a promise to pay money, the majority rule is that if the money is to be used in a way connected with the land, the burden will run with the land. The most common example is a covenant to pay a homeowners' association an annual fee for maintenance of common ways, parks, etc., in a subdivision. Such a situation is analogous to the golf course and country club dues presented in the facts. (B) is incorrect because the holder of an easement has the right to use a tract of land (called the servient tenement) for a special purpose but has no right to possess and use the land. The annual dues requirement does 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

not constitute the right to use another's land for a special purpose. (C) is incorrect because a mortgage is a security interest in real estate (usually to secure a promise to repay a loan represented by a promissory note). The payment of dues does not result in a security interest in the golf course, and is thus inapplicable to the facts. (D) is wrong because a personal contractual obligation by each purchaser does not bind subsequent purchasers, who would, therefore, be under no obligation to pay the annual dues.

\section{Answer to Question 25}

(D) (D) is the correct answer by a process of elimination. (A) is incorrect because there is no racial discrimination or other constitutionally questionable activity presented in the facts. (B) is wrong because marketable title is title reasonably free from doubt. Generally, this involves either defects in the chain of title or encumbrances that might present an unreasonable risk of litigation. The dues scheme is not such an encumbrance. (C) is incorrect because the scheme does not impose a direct restraint on alienation of the fee. There are no disabling restraints, forfeiture restraints, or promissory restraints on transferability of property. Thus, by a process of elimination, (D) presents the greatest obstacle to establishing the scheme, even though a majority of courts today allow real covenants that require payment of an annual fee for maintenance of common ways, parks, etc.

\section{Answer to Question 26}

(B) If Oaks prevails, it will be because the original installation defined the scope of the easement. The scope of the easement depends on the intent of the parties. In determining the intent of the parties, the courts look at the subsequent conduct of the parties respecting the arrangement as well as the language of the instrument. Here, the instrument states the location is to be mutually agreed upon. Oaks and United agreed to the original pipeline and its location, but have not agreed upon the location of the second set of pipes. The parties' subsequent conduct could also lead to the conclusion that the first installation was the full extent of what the parties intended. (A) is incorrect because the Rule Against Perpetuities has absolutely no application to these facts. The easement was vested when it was created, and easements are presumed to be perpetual. (C) is incorrect because Oaks will be deemed to have acquiesced in the location of the original easement. (D) is wrong because inverse condemnation is the term for a landowner's lawsuit for damages to recover for a governmental taking without exercising its formal power of eminent domain (e.g., regulatory takings that deprive the owner of all economically viable uses of the property). Even if United were a government agency and this were a regulatory taking, inverse condemnation would not be correct since Oaks is seeking an injunction, not compensation.

\section{Answer to Question 27}

(A) A remainder is a future interest created in a transferee that is capable of becoming a present interest upon the natural termination of the preceding estates created in the same disposition. A contingent remainder is a remainder that is subject to a condition precedent, or a remainder that is created in favor of unborn or unascertained persons. Here, Ana Maria's unborn children will take a remainder, because their interest will become a present interest upon the natural termination of the preceding estate (upon Enrique's death). Because this remainder is created in favor of unborn and unascertained persons, it is contingent. A vested remainder subject to divestment arises when the remainderman is in existence and ascertained and his interest is not subject to any condition precedent, but his right to possession is subject to being defeated by some condition subsequent. (B) is incorrect because the remaindermen are neither in existence nor ascertained. A springing use is a form of executory interest (a future interest in a transferee that is not capable of taking on the natural termination of the preceding estate). (C) is incorrect because Ana Maria's children's interest will become a present interest upon the natural termination of the preceding estate. Finally, because (A) is correct, (D) is obviously incorrect.

\section{Answer to Question 28}

(D) If Marsh wins, it will be because there was no effective acceptance of delivery of the deed. There must be acceptance by the grantee to complete a conveyance. Although acceptance is presumed, this presumption is rebutted by evidence of rejection. Here, Simon expressly rejected the conveyance, and therefore, title never passed to Simon. (A) is incorrect because a constructive trust presumes that Simon had legal title. As discussed above, title did not pass to Simon. Furthermore, even had title passed, a constructive trust would probably be inappropriate here. Constructive trust is the appropriate remedy for unjust enrichment, and there is no indication of any wrongdoing under these facts. (B) is an incorrect statement of law. If the grantor intends the recording of the deed to be the final act in vesting title in the grantee, such recording creates a presumption of delivery even though the grantee did not know of the recordation. (C) is wrong because there is no such thing as a constructive reconveyance. Had Simon accepted the deed and then changed his mind, he would have had to execute a new deed to reconvey the property back to Marsh.

\section{Answer to Question 29}

(A) Cohen's interest purports to be an executory limitation. However, Cohen cannot take the land until such time as the premises are no longer used for residential and farm purposes. This could happen more than 21 years after the death of Bogatz or Cohen, the relevant lives in being. Thus, this interest violates the Rule Against Perpetuities. It follows that (B), (C), and (D) are incorrect. Note also that, regarding (C) and (D), possibilities of reverter and rights of entry for condition broken are future interests left in a grantor. Cohen is not a grantor.

\section{Answer to Question 30}

(D) The deed, once it has been delivered, is merely evidence of its own existence, and its destruction does not cause any change in the title. Doris therefore continued to own the property. (A) is wrong because a title can be acquired by a quitclaim deed and that is true, even though the grantee has paid no consideration. (B) is wrong because destruction of the deed does not cause title to revert. (C) is wrong because there is no evidence of undue influence, and, in any event, destruction of the deed would cause no change in the status of the title.

\section{Answer to Question 31}

(D) The question is somewhat confusing, since there are really two gifts to grandchildren. The first is the vested remainder in the grandchildren that follows Ben's life estate. The second is the executory interest that is given to the other grandchildren if one of the grandchildren purports to mortgage or sell in violation of the condition. This latter gift is void both as a violation of the Rule Against Perpetuities and as an unlawful restraint on alienation. It violates the Rule because by its terms it could purport to vest possession in the "other" grandchildren more than 21 years after the termination of a life in being. However, these objections apply only to the second of the two gifts to the grandchildren. The first gift, that is, the remainder to them, is entirely valid. The 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

language dealing with the restraint on alienation would probably be stricken by the court, leaving the initial gift intact. (D) is the answer that best expresses this result.

\section{Answer to Question 32}

(A) The best argument is that Breyer's rights depend on the existence of a public street. (B) is wrong because no issue of the Statute of Frauds is present. There has been no purported conveyance to Breyer of rights in the street by anyone who owns such rights. (C) is wrong because, if a public street exists, Breyer need not assert a way of necessity. (D) is wrong because there is no legal objection to the enrichment that results if persons other than the dedicator are permitted to use a public street.

\section{Answer to Question 33}

(D) The dedication argument is Breyer's strongest, although even it is not likely to be successful unless and until the city bodies accept the dedication. (A) is wrong because Breyer does not need a way of necessity, since he has other access to his land. (B) is wrong because the deed from White to Breyer, while referring to the plan, used it only as a boundary reference and did not create any rights to the use of the streets. (C) is wrong because, while the sale of lots by reference to a plan does create private easements in the streets, the easements serve only the lots in the subdivision plan itself and not such land as Whiteacre that is outside the plan.

\section{Answer to Question 34}

(D) In a partial condemnation case, the landlord-tenant relationship continues, as does the tenant's obligation to pay the entire rent for the remaining lease term. (A) is wrong because the law of landlord and tenant traditionally refuses to recognize frustration of purpose as a ground for termination of a lease. $(\mathrm{B})$ is wrong because the covenant of quiet enjoyment can be breached only by actions of the landlord and not those of a third party, such as the government. (C) is wrong because, while the tenant generally is obligated to return the premises in the same condition as when received (except for ordinary wear and tear), that obligation would not be considered breached by the actions of a third party such as the government. 

\section{TORTS QUESTIONS}