\section{CONSTITUTIONAL LAW QUESTIONS}

\section{Question 1}

A newly enacted criminal statute provides, in its entirety, "No person shall utter to another person in a public place any annoying, disturbing or unwelcome language." Smith followed an elderly woman for three blocks down a public street, yelling in her ear offensive four-letter words. The woman repeatedly asked Smith to leave her alone, but he refused.

In the subsequent prosecution of Smith, the first under this statute, Smith will:

(A) Not prevail.

(B) Prevail, because speech of the sort described here may not be punished by the state because of the First and Fourteenth Amendments.

(C) Prevail, because though his speech may be punished by the state, the state may not do so under this statute.

(D) Prevail, because the average user of a public street would think his speech/action here was amusing and ridiculous rather than "annoying," etc.

\section{Question 2}

Congressional legislation regulating the conditions for marriages and divorces would be most likely upheld if it:

(A) Applied only to marriages and divorces by members of the armed services.

(B) Applied only to marriages performed by federal judges and to divorces granted by federal courts.

(C) Implemented an executive agreement seeking to define basic human rights.

(D) Applied only to marriages and divorces in the District of Columbia.

\section{Question 3}

Assume for the purposes of this question that you are counsel to the state legislative committee that is responsible for real estate laws in your state. The committee wants you to $\mathrm{draft}$ legislation to make all restrictions on land use, imposed by deeds (now or hereafter recorded), unenforceable in the future so that public landuse planning through zoning will have exclusive control in matters of land use.

Which of the following is least likely to be a consideration in the drafting of such legislation?

(A) Compensation for property rights taken by public authority.

(B) Impairment of contract.

(C) Sovereign immunity.

(D) Police power.



\section{Questions 4-6} are based on the following fact situation:

Congress provides by statute that any state that fails to prohibit automobile speeds of over 55 miles per hour on highways within the state shall be denied federal highway construction funding. The state of Atlantic, one of the richest and most highway-oriented states in the country, refuses to enact such a statute.


\section{4} Which of the following potential plaintiffs is most likely to be able to obtain a judicial determination of the validity of this federal statute?

(A) A taxpayer of the United States and the state of Atlantic who wants his state to get its fair share of his tax monies for highways, and fears that, if it does not, his state taxes will be increased to pay for the highway construction in the state of Atlantic that federal funds would have financed.

(B) Contractors who have been awarded contracts by the state of Atlantic for specified highway construction projects, which contracts are contingent on payment to the state of the federal funds to which it would otherwise be entitled. (C) An automobile owner who lives in the state of Atlantic and regularly uses its highway system.

(D) An organization dedicated to keeping the federal government within the powers granted it by the Constitution.


\section{5} The best argument that can be made in support of the constitutionality of this federal statute is that:

(A) The states conceded their authority over highways to the national government when the states accepted federal grants to help finance the highways.

(B) The federal government can regulate the use of state highways without limitation because the federal government paid for most of their construction costs.

(C) Reasonable legislators could believe that the 55 mile-per-hour speed limit will ensure that the federal money spent on highways results in greater benefit than harm to the public.

(D) A recent public opinion survey demonstrates that $90 \%$ of the people in this country support a 55 mile-perhour speed limit.


\section{6} The federal statute relating to disbursement of highway funds, conditioned on the 55 mile-per-hour speed limit, is probably:

(A) Unconstitutional.

(B) Constitutional only on the basis of the spending power.

(C) Constitutional only on the basis of the commerce power.

(D) Constitutional on the basis of both the spending power and the commerce power. 

\section{Questions 7-8} are based on the following fact situation:

A recently enacted state law forbids nonresident aliens from owning more than 100 acres of land within the state and directs the state attorney general to bring an action of ejectment whenever a nonresident alien owns such land. Zane, a nonresident alien, has obtained title to 200 acres of land in the state, and he brings an action in federal court to enjoin the state attorney general from enforcing the statute. The defendant moves to dismiss the complaint.


\section{7} The best argument for Zane is that:

(A) States are forbidden by the Commerce Clause from interfering with the rights of nonresidents to own land.

(B) The state's power to restrict alien rights is limited by the federal power to control foreign relations.

(C) The state statute adversely affects Zane's right to travel.

(D) The 100-acre restriction means that aliens cannot engage in farming operations requiring larger amounts of land.


\section{8} The federal court should:

(A) Dismiss the action, because under the Constitution, nonresident aliens may not sue in federal court.

(B) Dismiss the action, because a state has plenary power to determine the qualifications for landholding within its boundaries.

(C) Hear the action, because the United Nations Charter forbids such discrimination.

(D) Hear the action, because a federal question is presented. 

\section{CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 433.}

\section{Question 9}

Zall, a resident of the state of Paxico, brought suit in federal district court against Motors, Inc., a Paxico corporation. Zall seeks recovery of \$ 12,000$ actual and \$ 12,000$ punitive damages arising from Motors's sale to him of a defective automobile. Zall's suit is based only on a common law contract theory.

From a constitutional standpoint, should the federal district court hear this suit on its merits?

(A) Yes, because Article III vests federal courts with jurisdiction over cases involving the obligation of contracts.

(B) Yes, because it is an action affecting interstate commerce.

(C) No, because this suit is not within the jurisdiction of an Article III court.

(D) No, because there is no case or controversy within the meaning of Article III.



\section{Questions 10-11} are based on the following fact situation:

The state of Missoula has enacted a new election code designed to increase voter responsibility in the exercise of the franchise and to enlarge citizen participation in the electoral process. None of its provisions conflict with federal statutes.


\section{10} Which of the following is the strongest reason for finding unconstitutional a requirement in the Missoula election code that each voter must be literate in English?

(A) The requirement violates Article I, Section 2 of the Constitution, which provides that representatives to Congress be chosen "by the people of the several States."

(B) The requirement violates Article I, Section 4 of the Constitution, which gives Congress the power to "make or alter" state regulations providing for the "times" and "manner" of holding elections for senators and representatives.

(C) The requirement violates the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(D) The requirement violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.


\section{11} The Missoula election code provides that in a special-purpose election for directors of a state watershed improvement district, the franchise is limited to landowners within the district, because they are the only ones directly affected by the outcome. Each vote is weighted according to the proportion of the holding of that individual in relation to the total affected property. The best argument in support of the statute and against the application of the "one person, one vote" principle in this situation is that the principle:

(A) Applies only to election of individuals to statewide public office.

(B) Does not apply where property rights are involved.

(C) Does not apply because the actions of such a district principally affect landowners.

(D) Does not apply because of rights reserved to the states by the Tenth Amendment.



\section{Questions 12-14} are based on the following fact situation:

The state of Yuma provides by statute, "No person may be awarded any state construction contract without agreeing to employ only citizens of the state and of the United States in performance of the contract."


\section{12} In evaluating the constitutionality of this state statute under the Supremacy Clause, which of the following would be most directly relevant?
(A) The general unemployment rate in the nation.
(B) The treaties and immigration laws of the United States.
(C) The need of the state for this particular statute.
(D) The number of aliens currently resid- ing in Yuma.


\section{13} If the Yuma statute is attacked as violating the Commerce Clause, which of the following defenses is the weakest?
(A) The statute will help protect the workers of the state of Yuma from competition by foreign workers.
(B) The statute will help ensure that workers with jobs directly affecting the performance of public contracts are dedicated to their jobs.
(C) The statute will help ensure a continu- ously available and stable work force for the execution of public contracts.
(D) The statute will help ensure that only the most qualified individuals work on public contracts.


\section{14} Suppose the state supreme court declares the statute to be unconstitutional on the ground that it violates the Privileges and Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the federal Constitution and the Equal Protection Clause of the state constitution. If the state seeks review in the United States Supreme Court, which of the following statements is most accurate?
(A) The United States Supreme Court may properly review that decision by certiorari only.
(B) The United States Supreme Court may properly review that decision by appeal only.
(C) The United States Supreme Court may properly review that decision by appeal or certiorari.
(D) The United States Supreme Court may not properly review that decision.



\section{Questions 15-16} are based on the following fact situation:

The state of Champlain enacts the Young Adult Marriage Counseling Act, which provides that, before any persons less than 30 years of age may be issued a marriage license, they must receive at least five hours of marriage counseling from a state-licensed social worker. This counseling is designed to ensure that applicants for marriage licenses know their legal rights and duties in relation to marriage and parenthood, understand the "true nature" of the marriage relationship, and understand the procedures for obtaining divorces.


\section{15} Pine, aged 25 , contemplates marrying Ross, aged 25. Both are residents of the state of Champlain. Pine has not yet proposed to Ross because he is offended by the counseling requirement.

Pine sues in federal court seeking a declaratory judgment that the Young Adult Marriage Counseling Act is unconstitutional. Which of the following is the clearest ground for dismissal of this action by the court?
(A) Pine and Ross are residents of the same state.
(B) No substantial federal question is presented.
(C) The suit presents a nonjusticiable political question.
(D) The suit is unripe.


\section{16} In a case in which the constitutionality of the Young Adult Marriage Counseling Act is in issue, the burden of persuasion will probably be on the: (A) Person challenging the law, because there is a strong presumption that elected state legislators acted properly.

(B) Person challenging the law, because the Tenth Amendment authorizes states to determine the conditions on which they issue marriage licenses.

(C) State, because there is a substantial impact on the right to marry, and that right is fundamental.

(D) State, because there is a substantial impact on the discrete and insular class of young adults.

\section{Question 17}

A statute of the state of Tuscarora made it a misdemeanor to construct any building of more than five stories without an automatic fire sprinkler system.

A local construction company built, in Tuscarora, a 10-story federal office building. It constructed the building according to the precise specifications of a federal contract authorized by federal statutes. Because the building was built without the automatic fire sprinkler system required by state law, Tuscarora prosecutes the private contractor.

Which of the following is the company's strongest defense to that prosecution?

(A) The state sprinkler requirement denies the company property or liberty without due process.

(B) The state sprinkler requirement denies the company equal protection of the laws.

(C) As applied, the state sprinkler requirement violates the Supremacy Clause.

(D) As applied, the state sprinkler requirement violates the Obligation of Contracts Clause.

\section{Question 18}

A state accredits both public and private schools, licenses their teachers, and supplies textbooks on secular subjects to all such schools. Country Schoolhouse, a private school that offers elementary and secondary education in the state, denies admission to all non-Caucasians.

In a suit to enjoin as unconstitutional the continued racially exclusionary admissions policy of the Country Schoolhouse, which of the following is the strongest argument against the school?

(A) Because education is a public function, the Country Schoolhouse may not discriminate on racial grounds.

(B) The state is so involved in school regulation and support that the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment is applicable to the school.

(C) The state is constitutionally obligated to eliminate segregation in all public and private educational institutions within the state.

(D) Any school with teachers who are licensed by the state is forbidden to discriminate on racial grounds.

\section{Question 19}

A federal statute requires United States civil service employees to retire at age 75 . However, that statute also states that civil service employees of the armed forces must retire at age 65 .

Prentis, a 65-year-old civil service employee of the Department of the Army, seeks a declaratory judgment that would forbid his mandatory retirement until age 75 .

The strongest argument that Prentis can make to invalidate the requirement that he retire at age 65 is that the law: (A) Denies him a privilege or immunity of national citizenship.

(B) Deprives him of a property right without just compensation.

(C) Is not within the scope of any of the enumerated powers of Congress in Article I, Section 8.

(D) Invidiously discriminates against him on the basis of age in violation of the Fifth Amendment.

\section{Question 20}

Congress passes a law regulating the wholesale and retail prices of "every purchase or sale of oil, natural gas, and electric power made in the United States."

The strongest argument in support of the constitutionality of this statute is that:

(A) The Constitution expressly empowers Congress to enact laws for "the general welfare."

(B) Congress has the authority to regulate such products' interstate transportation and importation from abroad.

(C) Congress may regulate the prices of every purchase and sale of goods and services made in this country, because commerce includes buying and selling.

(D) In inseverable aggregates, the domestic purchases or sales of such products affect interstate or foreign commerce.

\section{Question 21}

Congress enacted a statute providing that persons may challenge a state energy law on the ground that it is in conflict with the federal Constitution in either federal or state court. According to this federal statute, any decision by a lower state court upholding a state energy law against a challenge based on the federal Constitution may be appealed directly to the United States Supreme Court.

The provisions of this statute that authorize direct United States Supreme Court review of specified decisions rendered by lower state courts are:

(A) Constitutional, because congressional control over questions of energy use is plenary.

(B) Constitutional, because Congress may establish the manner by which the appellate jurisdiction of the United States Supreme Court is exercised.

(C) Unconstitutional, because they infringe the sovereign right of states to have their supreme courts review decisions of their lower state courts.

(D) Unconstitutional, because under Article III of the Constitution, the United States Supreme Court does not have authority to review directly decisions of lower state courts.

\section{Question 22}

Congress enacts a criminal statute prohibiting "any person from interfering in any way with any right conferred on another person by the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment."

Application of this statute to Jones, a private citizen, would be most clearly constitutional if Jones, with threats of violence, coerces:
(A) A public school teacher to exclude black pupils from her class, solely because of their race.
(B) Black pupils, solely because of their race, to refrain from attending a privately owned and operated school licensed by the state.
(C) The bus driver operating a free school bus service under the sponsorship of a local church to refuse to allow black pupils on the bus, solely because of their race.
(D) The federal official in charge of distributing certain federal benefits directly to students from distributing them to black pupils, solely because of their race. 

\section{Questions 23-24} are based on the following fact situation:

All lawyers practicing in the state of Erewhon must be members of the State Bar Association, by order of the state supreme court. Several state officials serve on the Bar Association's Board of Bar Governors. The Board of Bar Governors authorizes the payment of dues for two staff members to the Cosmopolitan Club, a private dining club licensed to sell alcoholic beverages. The Cosmopolitan Club is frequented by affluent businessmen and professionals and by legislators. It is generally known that the purpose of the membership of the Bar Association staff is to enable them to go where members of the "elite" meet and to lobby for legislation in which the Bar Association is interested. The State Association has numerous committees and subcommittees concerned with family law, real estate law, unauthorized practice, etc., and its recommendations often influence state policy. Some committee meetings are held at the Cosmopolitan Club. The club is known to have rules which restrict membership by race, religion, and sex.

Plaintiffs, husband and wife, who are members of the Erewhon Bar Association, petition the Board of Bar Governors to adopt a resolution prohibiting the payment of club dues to and the holding of meetings of the Bar Association or its committees at places that discriminate on the basis of race, religion, or sex. After substantial public discussion, the Board of Bar Governors, by a close vote, fails to pass such a resolution. These events receive extensive coverage in the local newspapers. Plaintiffs bring an action in federal court seeking an injunction against such payments and the holding of meetings in such places as the Cosmopolitan Club.


\section{23} The strongest argument for Plaintiffs is:

(A) Private rights to discriminate and associate freely must defer to a public interest against discrimination on the basis of race, religion, or sex.

(B) The failure of the State Bar Association to pass a resolution forbidding discrimination on the basis of race, religion, or sex constitutes a denial of equal protection.

(C) The State Bar Association is an agency of the state and its payment of dues to such private clubs promotes discrimination on the basis of race, religion, and sex.

(D) The State Bar Association's payment of dues to such private clubs promotes discrimination on the basis of race, religion, and sex.


\section{24} Which of the following actions should a federal district court take with respect to jurisdiction?

(A) Hear the case on the merits, because a federal claim is presented.

(B) Hear the case on the merits, because the expenditure of state funds in support of segregation is forbidden by the Fifth Amendment.

(C) Abstain from jurisdiction, because the constitutional issue should be litigated first in a state court.

(D) Dismiss the case for lack of jurisdiction, because the issue of Bar Association activities is solely within the domain of state law.

\section{Question 25}

Congress enacts a statute punishing "each and every conspiracy entered into by any two or more persons for the purpose of denying black persons housing, employment, or education, solely because of their race."

Under which of the following constitutional provisions is the authority of Congress to pass such a statute most clearly and easily justifiable?
(A) The Obligation of Contracts Clause.
(B) The General Welfare Clause of Article I, Section 8. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}
(C) The Thirteenth Amendment.
(D) The Fourteenth Amendment.

\section{Question 26}

A federal criminal law makes it a crime for any citizen of the United States not specifically authorized by the President to negotiate with a foreign government for the purpose of influencing the foreign government in relation to a dispute with the United States.

The strongest constitutional ground for the validity of this law is that:

(A) Under several of its enumerated powers, Congress may legislate to preserve the monopoly of the national government over the conduct of United States foreign affairs.

(B) The President's inherent power to negotiate for the United States with foreign countries authorizes the President, even in the absence of statutory authorization, to punish citizens who engage in such negotiations without permission.

(C) The law deals with foreign relations and therefore is not governed by the First Amendment.

(D) Federal criminal laws dealing with international affairs need not be as specific as those dealing with domestic affairs.

\section{Question 27}

A state statute requires that all buses which operate as common carriers on the highways of the state shall be equipped with seat belts for passengers. Transport Lines, an interstate carrier, challenges the validity of the statute and the right of the state to make the requirement.

What is the best basis for a constitutional challenge by Transport Lines?

(A) Violation of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. (B) Violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(C) Unreasonable burden on interstate commerce.

(D) Difficulty of enforcement.

\section{Question 28}

Congress passes an act requiring that all owners of bicycles in the United States register them with a federal bicycle registry. The purpose of the law is to provide reliable evidence of ownership to reduce bicycle theft. No fee is charged for the registration. Although most stolen bicycles are kept or resold by the thieves in the same cities in which the bicycles were stolen, an increasing number of bicycles are being taken to cities in other states for resale.

Is this act of Congress constitutional?

(A) Yes, because Congress has the power to regulate property for the general welfare.

(B) Yes, because Congress could determine that, in inseverable aggregates, bicycle thefts affect interstate commerce.

(C) No, because most stolen bicycles remain within the state in which they were stolen.

(D) No, because the registration of vehicles is a matter reserved to the states by the Tenth Amendment.

\section{Question 29}

A statute of the state of Lanape flatly bans the sale or distribution of contraceptive devices to minors. Drugs, Inc., a national retailer of drugs and related items, is charged with violating the Lanape statute.

Which of the following is the strongest constitutional argument Drugs, Inc., could make in defending itself against prosecution for violation of this statute?

(A) The statute constitutes an undue burden on interstate commerce. (B) The statute denies minors one of their fundamental rights without due process.

(C) The statute denies Drugs, Inc., a privilege or immunity of state citizenship.

(D) The statute violates the First Amendment right to freedom of religion because it regulates morals.

\section{Question 30}

Congress enacted a law prohibiting the killing, capture, or removal of any form of wildlife upon or from any federally owned land.

Which of the following is the most easily justifiable source of national authority for this federal law?
(A) The Commerce Clause of Article I, Section 8.
(B) The Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV.
(C) The Enforcement Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
(D) The Property Clause of Article IV, Section 3.

\section{Question 31}

The President of the United States recognizes the country of Ruritania and undertakes diplomatic relations with its government through the Secretary of State. Ruritania is governed by a repressive totalitarian government.

In an appropriate federal court, Dunn brings a suit against the President and Secretary of State to set aside this action on the ground that it is inconsistent with the principles of our constitutional form of government. Dunn has a lucrative contract with the United States Department of Commerce to provide commercial information about Ruritania. The contract expressly terminates, however, "when the President recognizes the country of Ruritania and undertakes diplomatic relations with its government." Which of the following is the most proper disposition of the Dunn suit by the federal court?
(A) Suit dismissed, because Dunn does not have standing to bring this action.
(B) Suit dismissed, because there is no adver- sity between Dunn and the defendants.
(C) Suit dismissed, because it presents a nonjusticiable political question.
(D) Suit decided on the merits.

\section{Question 32}

Congress passes an Energy Conservation Act. The Act requires all users of energy in this country to reduce their consumption by a specified percentage, to be set by a presidential executive order. The Act sets forth specific standards the President must use in setting the percentage and detailed procedures to be followed.

The provision that allows the President to set the exact percentage is probably:

(A) Constitutional, because it creates a limited administrative power to implement the statute.

(B) Constitutional, because inherent executive powers permit such action even without statutory authorization.

(C) Unconstitutional as an undue delegation of legislative power to the executive.

(D) Unconstitutional, because it violates the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.

\section{Question 33}

The federal government has complete jurisdiction over certain park land located within the state of Plains. To conserve the wildlife that inhabits that land, the federal government enacts a statute forbidding all hunting of animals in the 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

federal park. That statute also forbids the hunting of animals that have left the federal park and have entered the state of Plains.

Hanson has a hunting license from the state of Plains authorizing him to hunt deer anywhere in the state. On land within the state of Plains located adjacent to the federal park, Hanson shoots a deer he knows has recently left the federal land.

Hanson is prosecuted for violating the federal hunting law. The strongest ground supporting the constitutionality of the federal law forbidding the hunting of wild animals that wander off federal property is that:

(A) This law is a necessary and proper means of protecting United States property.

(B) The animals are moving in the stream of interstate commerce.

(C) The police powers of the federal government encompass protection of wild animals.

(D) Shooting wild animals is a privilege, not a right.

\section{Question 34}

A state statute makes fraud for personal financial gain a crime. Jones was convicted of violating this statute on three separate occasions. Following his most recent conviction, he professed to have undergone a religious conversion and proclaimed himself to be the divine minister of "St. Rockport," an alleged messiah who would shortly be making his appearance on earth. Jones solicited cash donations from the public to support his efforts to spread the word of St. Rockport and his coming appearance on earth. Following complaints by several contributors who claimed he defrauded them, Jones was again charged with fraud under this state statute. The charge was that Jones "should have known that his representations about St. Rockport were false and, therefore, that he made them solely to collect cash donations for his personal gain." A witness for the prosecution in Jones's trial stated that Jones had admitted that, at times, he had doubts about the existence of St. Rockport. Jones was the only religious minister prosecuted for fraud under this state statute.

The strongest constitutional defense that Jones could assert would be that this prosecution:

(A) Deprived him of the equal protection of the laws because other religious ministers have not been charged under this statute.

(B) Denied him procedural due process because it placed upon Jones the burden of rebutting evidence, submitted by the state, of his bad faith in raising this money.

(C) Denied him rights conferred by the Obligation of Contracts Clause by preventing him from taking money from persons who wished to contract with him to spread the word of St. Rockport.

(D) Denied him the free exercise of religion in violation of the First and Fourteenth Amendments because it required the state to determine the truth or falsity of the content of his religious beliefs. 

\section{CONSTITUTIONAL LAW ANSWERS}

\section{Answer to Question 1}

(C) The statute at issue is void for vagueness. If a criminal law or regulation fails to give persons reasonable notice of what is prohibited, it may violate the Due Process Clause. This principle is applied somewhat strictly when First Amendment activity is involved in order to avoid the chilling effect a vague law might have on speech (i.e., if it is unclear what speech is regulated, people might refrain from speech that is permissible for fear that they will be violating the law). Here, the statute does not give reasonable notice as to what language is being prohibited, and no court decisions have limited its construction. Thus, it is impermissibly vague, and Smith will prevail. Therefore, (A) incorrectly states that Smith will not prevail. (B) is incorrect because it is too broad a statement. First Amendment freedoms are not absolute; for instance, obscenity may be punished under a properly drawn statute. The problem here is that it cannot be determined what speech is being prohibited. (D) is incorrect because there is no constitutional "average person test."

\section{Answer to Question 2}

(D) (D) is the "safest" answer because Congress has the same legislative authority over the District of Columbia as a state legislature has over matters internal to its state. This clearly includes the authority to regulate marriage and divorce. It could be argued that Congress's military and war powers could sustain (A); that Congress's power to regulate the jurisdiction of federal courts could sustain (B); that Congress's power over external affairs, which includes the power to implement executive agreements, could sustain $(\mathrm{C})$, but these arguments are more speculative than that for (D).

\section{Answer to Question 3}

(C) (A) is incorrect because, depending upon specific applications of the proposed legislation, a "taking of property," requiring just compensation, could result. This would raise the issue as to whether the governmental action amounts to a taking (in which case the state must fairly compensate the owner of property) or a regulation (in which case there is no need for compensation), and would certainly be a consideration in the drafting of the subject legislation. (B) is incorrect because the proposed legislation could be seen as constituting a prohibited retroactive impairment of contract rights. (D) is incorrect because questions of "taking" often arise in connection with the state's exercise of its police power (i.e., the power to legislate for the health, welfare, or safety of the people). (C) appears least relevant because the proposed legislation does not seem to contemplate suits against the state.

\section{Answer to Question 4}

(B) In order to have standing, a person must usually show a direct and immediate personal injury due to the challenged government action. The claimant must be in a position to demonstrate a concrete stake in the outcome of the suit and a direct impairment of his own constitutional rights. The contractors in (B) satisfy the criteria. The plaintiffs in (C) and (D) do not. As to (A), federal taxpayers generally have no standing to challenge the validity of federal expenditures; in any event, the federal taxpayer here is not complaining of any added tax burdens. State taxpayers may challenge the validity of state programs that involve measurable state expenditures, but here it is a federal program whose constitutionality is in issue and, in any event, the state expenditure is only hypothetical.

\section{Answer to Question 5}

(C) (A) is incorrect because the mere acceptance of federal money to help pay for highways does not amount to a concession of authority over such highways. Federal authority over the highways 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

must be derived from a specific source, rather than from the mere supplying of funds for the highways. Thus, (B) also is incorrect. (D) is incorrect because the constitutionality (or lack thereof) of an exercise of federal legislative power is in no way based on public opinion. (C) is correct because Congress has power to condition federal spending if Congress reasonably finds that the spending program is for the general welfare. Even where Congress otherwise has no power to regulate an area, it can use its spending power to so regulate by requiring entities that accept government money to act in a certain manner.

\section{Answer to Question 6}

(D) (D) is correct, because Congress clearly has the right to place conditions on appropriated funds under the spending power and because highways fall within the purview of interstate commerce and are thus subject to Commerce Clause regulation. Few cases have ever declared a generally applicable federal statute based on commerce power to be an unconstitutional interference with state functions, and spending power conditions were upheld in South Dakota $v$. Dole (1987). It follows that (A), (B), and (C) are incorrect.

\section{Answer to Question 7}

(B) (B) is an accurate statement of constitutional doctrine. Congress has plenary power over aliens. A state or local law that is based on alienage is subject to strict scrutiny (i.e., a compelling state interest must be shown to justify disparate treatment). When, as with the state law here at issue, state action regulates aliens, Congress's plenary power over aliens arising from its power over naturalization is more directly implicated than Congress's commerce power; thus $(\mathrm{B})$ is a better choice than (A). (C) is incorrect because the state law does not penalize anyone for exercising the right to travel from state to state. (D)'s relevance is remote, at best.

\section{Answer to Question 8}

(D) The federal judicial power extends to cases arising under the Constitution of the United States. (D) is correct because the recently enacted state law discriminates against aliens, and many state discriminations against aliens have been held unconstitutional. Thus, there is a federal question. (A) is incorrect because aliens are permitted to bring certain actions in federal court challenging constitutionally suspect governmental action. (B) is incorrect because a state's regulation of land ownership may not be exercised in a manner that runs afoul of constitutional parameters. (C) is incorrect because, even assuming that there is a United Nations charter provision on point, this would not give the court jurisdiction; there must be a federal question.

\section{Answer to Question 9}

(C) The court should not hear this suit on the merits because Article III courts are not empowered to hear suits between citizens of the same state where no federal question jurisdiction is involved. Article III lists the cases to which federal jurisdiction extends. It includes suits arising under federal law, and suits between citizens of two or more states. Zall's suit against Motors involves two citizens of the state of Paxico and no federal question is raised. No provision of Article III covers such a suit. Thus, Zall should have brought suit in Paxico state court. (A) is incorrect because the Contracts Clause deals with state legislation impairing contracts and no such legislation is implied by the facts. Article III has no general provision for suits involving the obligation of contracts. (B) is incorrect because while it might be said that the action can affect interstate commerce and thus is subject to federal regulation, absent such federal regulation, there is no basis under Article III for jurisdiction. Article III does not provide for federal court jurisdiction in all cases affecting interstate commerce. (D) is incorrect because a "case or controversy" exists. The case or controversy requirement only prohibits federal courts from rendering advisory opinions, such as where the case is moot or unripe, or the parties are not truly adverse. The parties here are clearly adverse and there is a real, live controversy; the only thing missing is a basis for federal court jurisdiction.

\section{Answer to Question 10}

(D) The Fourteenth Amendment prevents states from discriminating against the exercise of "fundamental rights,"' one of which is the right to vote, unless the state shows a compelling interest. The English requirement suggests discrimination against the right to vote of people who cannot speak English. (A) is clearly inapplicable. (B) is clearly incorrect. (C) may be correct, but it is not as good as (D). Note that the Supreme Court has not specifically decided whether a "discriminatory purpose" is required for a violation of the Fifteenth Amendment's bar against governmental racial discrimination in voting.

\section{Answer to Question 11}

(C) When a governmental body establishes voting districts for the election of representatives, the number of persons in each district may not vary significantly ("one person, one vote"). This principle applies to almost every election where a person is being elected to perform normal governmental functions. However, the government can limit the class of persons who are allowed to vote in an election of persons to serve on a special purpose government unit if the unit has a special impact on the class of enfranchised voters. The watershed improvement districts referred to in this question are so specialized that election of their directors is not subject to the "one person, one vote" principle. These districts disproportionately affect landowners and do not perform general governmental functions. Thus, (C) is correct. (A) is incorrect because "one person, one vote" has a broader reach than merely election to statewide office. As noted above, the principle applies to almost every election for the performance of normal governmental functions. (B) is incorrect because conditioning the right to vote on property ownership normally would be invalid under the Equal Protection Clause. Only certain special purpose elections can be based on property ownership. (D) incorrectly implies that "one person, one vote" does not apply to states. In fact, the principle is binding on states through the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

\section{Answer to Question 12}

(B) An act of Congress or federal regulation supersedes any state or local action that actually conflicts with the federal rule, whether by commanding conduct inconsistent with that required by the federal rule, or by forbidding conduct that the federal rule is designed to foster. The conflict need not relate to conduct; it is sufficient if the state law interferes with achievement of a federal objective. In addition, note that Congress has exclusive power over naturalization and denaturalization. Thus, United States treaties and immigration laws would supersede an inconsistent state law, making them relevant to the constitutionality of the state Yuma statute. (A), (C), and (D) all refer to some perceived justification for the statute. However, they are irrelevant because, even if a state law was enacted for a valid purpose, it will be rendered void if it conflicts with federal law.

\section{Answer to Question 13}

(A) The acknowledgment that the statute will protect Yuma workers from outside competition is the weakest defense because it indicates that the law has a discriminatory impact. State legislation 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

that is challenged on Commerce Clause grounds (i) must not discriminate against out-of-state competition to benefit local economic interests, and (ii) must not be unduly burdensome. A discriminatory law will be valid only if it furthers an important noneconomic state interest and there are no reasonable alternatives available, whereas a nondiscriminatory law will be valid as long as the legitimate state interests outweigh the burden on interstate commerce. Here, choices (B), (C), and (D) all attempt to provide a nondiscriminatory rationale for the statute, making it easier to pass muster under the Commerce Clause, while choice (A) amounts to a concession by the state that the statute discriminates in favor of state economic interests, making it more likely to be invalidated.

\section{Answer to Question 14}

(D) The Supreme Court will hear a case from a state court only if the state court judgment turned on federal grounds. The Court will refuse jurisdiction if it finds adequate and independent nonfederal grounds to support the state decision. The nonfederal grounds must be adequate in that they are fully dispositive of the case, so that even if the federal grounds are wrongly decided, it would not affect the outcome of the case. Also, the nonfederal grounds must be independent. If the state court's interpretation of its state provision was based on federal case law interpreting an identical federal provision, the state law grounds for the decision is not independent. Here, the state supreme court rested its decision on the ground of violation of the state constitution, without any interpretation based on an identical federal provision. Thus, the decision is supported by adequate and independent nonfederal grounds, and the Supreme Court should refuse jurisdiction. (A), (B), and (C) are all based on the incorrect premise that the Supreme Court may somehow properly review the decision.

\section{Answer to Question 15}

(D) This issue would not be considered ripe because there is no real harm or immediate threat of harm. If Pine and Ross were actually engaged to be married, refused to undergo the counseling, and then requested that a license be issued, the issue would be ripe, because at that point they would have been denied the license on the basis of the statute. As it is, they have not even come to the point of requesting a license. (A) is wrong because diversity is not the only basis for federal jurisdiction. (B) is wrong because there is a substantial federal question-the right to marry is part of the constitutionally protected right of privacy. (C) is wrong because no political question is presented. Political questions include those issues committed by the Constitution to another branch of government and those inherently incapable of resolution and enforcement by the judicial process.

\section{Answer to Question 16}

(C) Where a fundamental right, such as the right to marry, is substantially affected, the state bears the burden of persuading the court that the statute in question is necessary to achieve a compelling or overriding government purpose. (A) is wrong because there is no presumption that state legislators acted properly. Also, as can be seen from the analysis at the beginning of this answer, (A) places the burden on the wrong party. (B) also places the burden on the wrong party. In addition, the Tenth Amendment provides that all powers not delegated to the federal government by the Constitution are reserved to the states. The Tenth Amendment does not authorize states to place unconstitutional burdens on fundamental rights. (D) is wrong, because "young adults" are not a discrete and insular class entitled to judicial scrutiny of laws that arguably require equal protection under the law. 

\section{Answer to Question 17}

(C) Whenever Congress acts within the scope of a delegated power such as that of the Commerce Clause, the Supremacy Clause renders any conflicting state or local law or action void. Thus, as applied, the state sprinkler requirement violates the Supremacy Clause. (A) is wrong because a substantive due process claim would be almost guaranteed to fail, since business regulation is now invariably sustained as reasonable state action under the Due Process Clause. (B) is wrong because classifications that relate only to matters of economics or social welfare (not fundamental rights) and do not employ suspect or quasi-suspect classifications are almost always upheld. The classification of building story size is not arbitrary. (D) is wrong because the contract has not been breached, so no Obligation of Contracts Clause issue is presented.

\section{Answer to Question 18}

(B) Race is a "suspect category" under the Equal Protection Clause, but the Fourteenth Amendment does not apply to purely private acts of discrimination. However, if state action is found, the clause can be invoked against Country Schoolhouse. State action can be found in the actions of seemingly private individuals who (i) perform exclusive public functions or (ii) have significant state involvement in their activities. (B) states an example of significant state involvement and is, therefore, correct. (A) is wrong because to be state action, the activity must be both a traditional and exclusive government function. Education does not so qualify. The Supreme Court has only found running a town and running an election for public office to be such exclusive government functions. (C) is wrong because the statement is overbroad. Only intentional discrimination will be found to create discriminatory classifications calling for strict scrutiny. (D) is wrong because state involvement must be "significant" to trigger state action. Mere licensure is generally not "significant."

\section{Answer to Question 19}

(D) Prentis's strongest argument would be that his Fifth Amendment due process rights have been abridged. While the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment only applies to state action, it is clear that arbitrary or invidious discrimination by the federal government violates the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment. Thus, there are really two equal protection guarantees. Since age is not a suspect category, this legislation would only be subject to the rational basis test. Because other civil service employees can work until the age of 75 , Prentis would have an argument that the state had invidiously discriminated against him on the basis of age. His argument would probably fail, but is the "strongest" argument of the four alternatives given. (A) is wrong because employment is not a privilege or immunity of national citizenship. (B) is wrong because, where a public employee holds his position at the will of an employer, there is no property interest in continued employment. Since Prentis was dismissed on the basis of his age, rather than for cause, he had no property interest in continued employment. (C) is wrong because under the Necessary and Proper Clause, Congress may do anything that is arguably appropriate to relate to a federal interest.

\section{Answer to Question 20}

(D) This would be the strongest argument in support of the constitutionality of this statute. Article I, Section 8, Paragraph 3 empowers Congress to "regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several states, and with the Indian tribes." Only rarely has a modern case invalidated a federal law regulating nongovernmental persons because it exceeded the commerce power. (A) is wrong because Congress does not have a general welfare power to regulate all activity in this 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

country. (B) is wrong because it would not justify the statute at issue. (C) is wrong because it overstates congressional power by failing to connect the activity to "commerce."

\section{Answer to Question 21}

(B) Congress has the power to regulate and limit the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. Thus, the statute here, which was enacted by Congress, properly authorizes direct appeal of a specified decision to the Supreme Court. (A) is incorrect because there is nothing to support the proposition that Congress has plenary control over matters involving energy use. Also, (A) does not address the issue of jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. (C) is incorrect because states possess no such sovereign right. Federal review of state acts (whether they be executive, legislative, or judicial) is well established. (D) is incorrect because Article III actually provides that the Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction under such regulations as Congress shall make.

\section{Answer to Question 22}

(A) Application (A) is the most clearly constitutional. Section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment guarantees equal protection; it applies directly only to "state action," which is most clearly indicated in answer (A). Thus, answers (B) and (C) are not as clearly constitutional. Answer (D) is incorrect because the Fourteenth Amendment does not directly apply to federal action. Congress's power to prohibit federal acts would be easier to justify under Article I (e.g., as necessary and proper to carry out the spending power). Thus, (D) is not as clear a Fourteenth Amendment case as (A).

\section{Answer to Question 23}

(C) Race is a suspect classification under the Equal Protection Clause. However, the Fourteenth Amendment only applies if there is action by a state or local government office, or a private individual whose behavior meets the requirement of "state action." State action exists where seemingly private individuals (i) perform exclusive public functions, or (ii) have significant state involvement in their activities. "State action" also exists where a state affirmatively facilitates, encourages, or authorizes acts of discrimination by its citizens. However, there must be some sort of affirmative act by the state approving the private action. It is not enough that the state merely permits the conduct to occur. Under these facts, several state officials serve on the Bar Association's Board of Bar Governors. Furthermore, the state supreme court requires all lawyers to be members of the State Bar Association. Thus, the State Bar Association does not operate independently of the state and, therefore, Plaintiffs' strongest argument would be to demonstrate that "state action" is involved in payment of dues by the Association to private clubs that discriminate. Thus, (C) is correct. (A) is wrong because "state action" is required to invoke the antidiscrimination protections of the Fourteenth Amendment. Only the Thirteenth Amendment's ban on badges or incidents of slavery applies to purely private actions. (B) is wrong because the failure of the Association to pass a resolution forbidding discrimination does not, in and of itself, constitute a denial of equal protection, and the argument for state action being present is much weaker than in option (C). (D) is wrong because, unless it is shown that the Association is an instrumentality of the state or closely intertwined with state action, the mere fact of its payment of dues to such private clubs will not invoke the Equal Protection Clause. (C) is the only answer that clearly focuses on the state action issue.

\section{Answer to Question 24}

(A) The court should hear the case on the merits. Federal judicial power extends to all cases and controversies arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States. Because the activities of the State Bar Association present a federal claim arising under the Equal Protection Clause of the United States Constitution, the federal district court should hear the case on its merits. Therefore, (A) is correct. (B) is wrong because it is the Fourteenth Amendment that applies to the states. The Fifth Amendment Due Process Clause forbids federal discrimination. (C) is wrong because the doctrine of abstention is applicable when a federal constitutional claim is premised on an unsettled question of state law. These facts present no such unsettled state law question. (D) is wrong because the Bar Association's activities encroach on federally protected constitutional rights and, therefore, are not solely within the domain of state law, nor are there any "adequate and independent state grounds" here.

\section{Answer to Question 25}

(C) (C) is correct because the Thirteenth Amendment addresses private acts of racial discrimination. (D) is incorrect because the Supreme Court has not recognized any power of Congress to regulate private persons under Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment. (A) is incorrect because the Obligation of Contracts Clause prohibits states from impairing contractual obligations. Thus, this clause is inapplicable to this case. (B) is incorrect because the General Welfare Clause authorizes Congress to spend to provide for the common defense and general welfare. There is no connection between this clause and the statute at issue.

\section{Answer to Question 26}

(A) Congress has the power to declare war, raise and support armies, provide for and maintain a navy, and spend to provide for the common defense and general welfare, as well as the power to make all laws that are necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers or any other federal power (including the power of the President and Senate to enter into treaties in conformity with Article II). Pursuant to these enumerated powers, Congress can take preventive measures against activities that may cause international misunderstandings, which in turn may lead to war, as well as against endeavors to undermine the government. The statute here shows a congressional intent to ensure that only properly authorized persons negotiate with foreign governments, and it is a legitimate means of implementing Congress's powers. (B) is incorrect because, although the President has broad discretion in foreign affairs, it is doubtful that such discretion would include the authority to unilaterally punish citizens who encroach on that discretion, absent legislative authorization to impose such punishment. (C) and (D) are incorrect because they are based on the mistaken notion that laws dealing with foreign affairs need not pass constitutional muster.

\section{Answer to Question 27}

(C) A challenge based on interstate commerce would be most effective. Sometimes a nondiscriminatory law that regulates commerce may place a burden on interstate commerce. Such a law will be invalidated if the burden on interstate commerce outweighs local interests. This is a case-by-case balancing test, and it is by no means clear that the law in question would be ruled invalid. However, the Commerce Clause issue is the only answer where there is any reasonable likelihood that the legislation could be declared invalid. Thus, (C) is the correct answer. (A) is wrong because no fundamental right is involved and, therefore, the mere rationality test is applied, and the law will be upheld if it is rationally related to any conceivable legitimate end of government. The seat belt law clearly meets this minimal standard and any challenge based on due process would surely fail. (B) is wrong because the legislation does not involve a fundamental right, a suspect classification, or a quasi-suspect classification. In equal protection analysis, if any other classification is involved, the action will be upheld unless the challenger proves that the action is not rationally 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

related to a legitimate government interest. Transport Lines cannot carry such a burden of proof. (D) is wrong because a constitutional challenge should be based on the infringement of rights guaranteed by the Constitution. Difficulty of enforcement is not relevant here.

\section{Answer to Question 28}

(B) Congress may regulate any activity, local or interstate, which either in itself, or in combination with other activities, has a substantial effect upon interstate commerce. Here, although most stolen bicycles remain within the state in which they were stolen, the cumulative effect of many instances of stolen bicycles being transported across state lines for resale could be felt in interstate commerce. It follows that (C) is incorrect. (A) is incorrect because Congress has the power to spend for the general welfare. The property power involves the disposal and acquisition of property belonging to the United States, and is not at all relevant to this question. (D) is incorrect because the Tenth Amendment reserves to the states those powers not delegated to the United States nor prohibited to the states by the Constitution. As noted above, the power to regulate commerce is conferred upon Congress by the Constitution. Thus, this matter is not reserved to the states.

\section{Answer to Question 29}

(B) The purchase of contraceptives is encompassed by the fundamental right of privacy. Because this statute contains no procedural safeguards, it denies minors a fundamental right without due process. Because Drugs, Inc., may assert the minors' rights, (B) is the correct answer. (A) is incorrect because there does not appear to be an undue burden on interstate commerce. (C) is incorrect because the statute does not treat state residents differently from out-of-state residents. (D) is nonsensical. Note: Under the Supreme Court's decisions regarding the sale of contraceptives to minors, the best possible answer would have been that the statute violated equal protection because it denied a fundamental right to a class of persons (minors) without sufficient justification. Since that answer was not given, the due process answer (which mentioned fundamental rights) was the best choice.

\section{Answer to Question 30}

(D) It has been held that the Property Clause empowers Congress to protect wildlife wandering onto federally owned lands. (B) is incorrect because the Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV pertains to discrimination by states against out-of-state citizens. (A) is incorrect because the commerce power is not as easy a way to justify the law as is the property power, which clearly and literally applies here (note the wording of the question). (C) is incorrect because the enabling clause of the Fourteenth Amendment gives Congress the power to enforce the amendment by appropriate legislation. The Fourteenth Amendment, which prevents the states from depriving any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law and equal protection of the law, is not at issue here.

\section{Answer to Question 31}

(C) A federal court will not decide political questions, which are: (i) those issues committed by the Constitution to another branch of government; and (ii) those issues inherently incapable of resolution and enforcement by the judicial process. Political questions include those regarding the conduct of foreign relations. Based on Supreme Court cases, the recognition of and establishment of diplomatic relations with a foreign country appear to be political questions. Thus, (D) is incorrect. (A) and (B) are incorrect because Dunn will be injured economically by the actions of the President and Secretary of State. Therefore, Dunn can demonstrate such a concrete stake in the outcome of this controversy as to ensure the adversariness which sharpens the presentation of issues.

\section{Answer to Question 32}

(A) Legislative power can be delegated to executive officers and/or administrative agencies. Any delegated power must not be uniquely confined to Congress. The delegation must include intelligible standards for action by the delegatee. The statutory provision here meets these criteria for a permissible delegation. It follows that (C) is incorrect. (B) is an incorrect statement of law. Even if the executive had the inherent power, that would not make the legislation constitutional. (D) is incorrect because this statute does not represent arbitrary governmental action. It serves a proper governmental purpose and provides for specific standards and procedures relative to its implementation.

\section{Answer to Question 33}

(A) In addition to its enumerated powers, Congress possesses auxiliary powers that are necessary and proper to carrying out all powers vested in the federal government. The statute here at issue is necessary and proper to carry out Congress's property power. By proscribing even the hunting of animals that have left the federal park, the statute will help protect the wildlife, which is property belonging to the United States. (B) is not the "strongest ground" because nothing in the facts points to interstate commerce. $(\mathrm{C})$ is incorrect because the police power is a power of state government, not the federal government. (D), as a general statement of law, is incorrect. Also, it apparently is based on the rejected "right" vs. "privilege" distinction relative to deprivation of liberty and property without procedural due process, an issue not raised by these facts.

\section{Answer to Question 34}

(D) Jones's strongest defense is that the statute violates his free exercise of religion. The Free Exercise Clause forbids government from making laws that prohibit the free exercise of religion. The Court has held that this means that the government may not punish a person for his or her religious beliefs. In determining what is a religious belief, the court may delve into the sincerity of the belief, but it may not find religious beliefs to be false. Thus, the prosecution here may be unconstitutional because it was based on the alleged falsity of a religious belief. (A) could be correct but it is not as good a basis as (D). Under the Equal Protection Clause, government must not unreasonably discriminate against similarly situated people. If a law discriminates (on its face or in its application) on the basis of a suspect class or where a fundamental right is involved, the law will be held invalid unless it is narrowly tailored to achieve a compelling government interest. Here, the law interferes with freedom of religion (a fundamental right), but it is not clear from this one prosecution that the law is being applied in a discriminatory manner. Therefore, (D) is a better answer. (B) is incorrect because the Due Process Clause requires only that the prosecution prove each element of a crime. Once the prosecution proves an element, there is no due process violation in having the defendant rebut the evidence; otherwise no one could ever be convicted of a crime. (C) is wrong because it is not clear that there was a Contract Clause violation. The Contract Clause forbids the retroactive impairment of contract rights unless the impairment is narrowly tailored to meet an important government interest. Here, the statute was apparently in existence when Jones "contracted" with his donors (although presumably the donations were gratuitous and not contractual). Thus, there is no retroactive impairment of contract. Moreover, 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

even if this were a retroactive impairment, it could be argued that it was justified because preventing fraud is an important government interest. In any case, this clearly is not as good a defense as (D). 

\section{CONTRACTS QUESTIONS}