\section{Constitutional Law}

\section{Question 1}

St. Minny, a town with a population of 30,000 , was located on the west bank of a small river. Immediately across the river, on the east bank, was Paulopolis, a city of 60,000 . Over the years, many civic improvement groups urged that the two municipalities be merged into "Minnypaulos," a single city of 90,000 souls. The arguments in favor of merger stressed savings to taxpayers accruing from the elimination of duplicate services. Proposals to merge the two places had appeared as referenda on the ballot on two separate occasions. Although the voters of Paulopolis approved each proposal by heavy margins, the voters of St. Minny, fearing that control of the government would be in the hands of more populous Paulopolis, rejected the referendum proposals by more than two to one.

To avoid the failure of yet another such referendum, a new proposal was made for the governance of the proposed combined city. For a period of 20 years, beginning at the date of the merger, the city council of the merged city would consist of six persons. The former Paulopolis would be divided into three council districts, as would the former city of St. Minny. Thus, each St. Minny council representative would be elected from a district with a population of 10,000, while the Paulopolis districts would contain 20,000 persons each. A mayor would be elected at large. The proposal was placed on the ballot and was carried by large majorities in both St. Minny and Paulopolis. Representatives from Paulopolis and St. Minny carved each former city into three council electoral districts. Three Paulopolis taxpayers filed suit to enjoin the holding of an election with council districts of such disparate proportions.

Which of the following represents the plaintiffs' best constitutional argument?
(A) The government of the merged cities is not a republican form of government.
(B) The plaintiffs and other Paulopolitans have been denied equal protection of the law.

(C) The plaintiffs and other Paulopolitans have been denied the privileges and immunities of citizenship as guaranteed by Article IV. of the federal Constitution.

(D) The plaintiffs and other Paulopolitans have been denied due process of law.



\section{Questions 2-3} are based on the following fact situation:

An act of Congress provides for the payment of Social Security benefits to the disabled children of deceased workers. A complex set of regulations carefully defines the meaning of the term "disabled." The benefits are payable even after the child reaches his or her age of majority, but terminate automatically when the recipient marries, unless the recipient marries a person who is also disabled, in which case the Social Security payments continue.

Dorit has been disabled since birth, and her father died in a coal mine cave-in when Dorit was 14 years of age. She has received Social Security benefits since her father's death. However, at age 25, Dorit married Jack, who is not disabled, and her Social Security benefits were summarily terminated. She files suit in federal district court, seeking to compel the government to restore her benefits. She asserts, among other things, that there is no logical reason why she should be deprived of benefits when unmarried disabled persons and disabled persons who marry other disabled persons continue to receive them. 

\section{CONSTITUTIONAL LAW}


\section{2} Which of the following provides the strongest constitutional basis for Dorit's suit?
(A) The privileges and immunities of national citizenship protected by the Fourteenth Amendment.
(B) The Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
(C) The Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.
(D) The prohibitions against bills of attainder.


\section{3} Which of the following is the strongest ground to defend the constitutionality of the federal statute in question?

(A) Congress's power over federal expenditures is plenary, and Congress has discretion to spend money from the Federal Treasury in whatever way it wishes.

(B) Because there is no constitutional entitlement to Social Security payments, Congress is free to condition them as it sees fit.

(C) The classification imposed by this statute is reasonable, inasmuch as it will save the national government a substantial amount of money.

(D) Congress could rationally conclude that a disabled child of a deceased worker who is unmarried or who marries another disabled person is more likely to be needy than a disabled person who is married to a person who is not disabled.

\section{Question 4}

To help alleviate the burdens of poverty and perhaps to help cut the welfare rolls, the state legislature of Margate passed legislation establishing State Family Counseling Centers throughout the state. The legislature recognized that much of the "welfare and poverty problem" was centered on poor single-parent households headed by a woman. Therefore, it decreed in the legislation that all counseling would be free for single mothers with an income of less than \$ 20,000$ per year. Others would have to pay fees for the counseling on a sliding scale depending upon income. The counseling services available at the State Family Counseling Centers included classes on parenting, anti-substance abuse programs, and financial counseling. The counseling centers were popular and other states considered copying the Margate model.

Peter's wife had died recently of a drug overdose, and he was left to care for their two children (ages two and four) on an income of approximately \$ 7,000$ per year. Peter had no idea how he could manage to care for the two children and himself on his small paychecks. He heard about the State Family Counseling Centers and went to the closest one for financial counseling. Peter was told that he would have to pay a \$ 50$ fee for the counseling. Peter had \$ 10$ in his pocket, which he needed for bus fare home and to feed his children until his check, due in five days, arrived. Peter became very angry when he learned that single mothers in his situation were entitled to free counseling while single fathers were not. A public-interest law firm agreed to take Peter's case and filed suit in federal court, asking that Peter be allowed to take advantage of the free counseling services because the law establishing them discriminated against males.

To win the case:

(A) Peter must show that the law is not rationally related to a legitimate state interest favoring mothers over fathers.

(B) Peter must show that the state has no compelling interest in favoring mothers over fathers.

(C) Margate must show that favoring mothers over fathers is substantially related to an important governmental interest.

(D) Margate must show that the law is rationally related to a legitimate state interest favoring mothers over fathers. 

\section{Question 5}

In 2000, Rogan Josh, then age 15, emigrated with his family from Dopyaza, an Asian country. Although Josh maintained Dopyazan citizenship, he held resident alien status and complied with all federal laws and regulations regarding maintenance of resident alien status. Upon arrival in the United States, Josh, his parents, and his siblings took up residence in the state of New Jingo. In 2003, Rogan Josh began'a course of studies in petroleum engineering at New Jingo University, a state institution. Because he was a resident of New Jingo, Josh qualified for the "in-state" tuition rate. The "nonresident" tuition rate was 10 times the in-state rate, and it would be impossible for Josh to attend New Jingo University if he were required to pay the nonresident tuition.

In 2005, the legislature of New Jingo passed a statute denying in-state tuition rates at any statesupported college or university for any resident aliens who were citizens of "any country which, during the previous five-year period, has held citizens of the United States as hostages." Due to an international dispute between the United States and the government of Dopyaza, the Dopyazan government had held six American citizens as hostages for a four-month period in 2002. The registrar of New Jingo University, where Josh has successfully completed two years of study, informed Josh that he would have to pay the nonresident tuition rate in order to begin his junior year. Josh cannot afford to pay the tuition.

If Josh files an appropriate suit asking the federal courts to strike down the New Jingo statute, which of the following is his best argument? (A) Because higher education is now so important for earning a livelihood, it has become a fundamental right protected by the Privileges and Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(B) Resident aliens cannot be blamed in retrospect for actions of their governments and, therefore, the New Jingo statute violates the constitutional prohibition of ex post facto laws.

(C) Alienage is a suspect category under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and New Jingo has not met the appropriate standard to burden Josh.

(D) Attending a state-supported university in a state where one is a legal resident is a property right that may not be taken away without due process of law. 

\section{CONSTITUTIONAL LAW}

\section{Question 6}

The Classical School is a private school located in the state of Romanova. Under an aidto-education statute passed by the state legislature a few years ago, The Classical School and certain other private schools receive state benefits. Among those received by The Classical School are: (i) free textbooks from the state, (ii) an exemption from state taxes, and (iii) $20 \%$ of its operating budget in the form of state grants. The remaining $80 \%$ of The Classical School's budget is covered by tuition fees and by donations from alumni and others. The Classical School is licensed by the state, but the state has no requirement for certification and licensure of teachers in private schools.

Timon was hired to teach history at The Classical School and was given the standard three-year contract given to teachers in their first stint at the school. Timon, who had been a student activist in college, was annoyed every day when he faced classes wearing the uniform required by The Classical School. Timon kept his mouth shut until he was chosen, in the fall term of his second year, to give the monthly "History Enrichment Lecture" to the entire school. The topic of Timon's lecture was Europe between the two world wars. Timon's lecture was factual, balanced, and nonopinionated, until, at the end of his lecture, he told the assembled students, "We've talked a lot this afternoon about the rise of fascism, but think about this: there is absolutely no qualitative difference between those uniforms you're wearing and those worn by the Hitler Youth. If you had any gumption you'd organize a protest against having to wear them." After the speech, Timon was called to the administrative office by the headmaster and fired on the spot, despite Timon's protests that he had almost two years left on his contract. Timon requested a hearing and was curtly told to leave the premises of the school immediately.

Charging that his constitutional rights had been violated, Timon filed suit in federal district court. Timon will: (A) Succeed, because the school's action violated Timon's freedom of speech rights.

(B) Succeed, because Timon has been denied due process of law.

(C) Fail, because Timon was not in his position long enough to acquire property rights in his job.

(D) Fail, because assistance and involvement by the state did not result in the private school's action being conduct by the state. 

\section{Question 7}

The state of Petrolia derived most of its income from extractive industries, especially its extensive oil and natural gas fields. However, a worldwide drop in the price of petroleum was severe enough to cause a depression in Petrolia, and the state's unemployment rate soared. To counter the effect the depression was having on Petrolia's citizens, the state legislature passed a law requiring all employers operating in the state's oil and natural gas fields to give preference in hiring to residents of Petrolia. The bill banned the hiring of nonresidents unless no other qualified person could be found to fill an oilfield or natural gas field position. Under prevailing economic conditions, the statute was tantamount to a total ban on hiring of nonresidents because so many unemployed oil and gas workers had been created by the depression and little new exploration was taking place.

"Roughnecks," as oilfield workers call themselves, tend to be an itinerant lot, moving from place to place as new fields are brought into production. Driller was a 48-year-old roughneck whose permanent residence was in Louisiana. He had worked on offshore rigs in the Gulf waters off his home state, but Driller had also worked in Texas, Oklahoma, Alaska, Kuwait, Indonesia, and Venezuela. Upon hearing that one of the few independent companies actively exploring in Petrolia had struck a new field in that state, Driller drove to the field office of Ewing Exploration Company in Petrolia and applied for a job. Looking at Driller's extensive experience as described on Driller's resume, Ewing's personnel officer sadly shook his head. He indicated that Driller's qualifications were better than anyone's working in the field, but that he had more applications from experienced Petrolia residents than he had jobs to offer. The sole reason given for not hiring Driller was the preferential hiring statute favoring state residents. Driller filed suit in federal district court challenging the statute.

The court should rule in favor of:
(A) Petrolia, because employment discrimina- tion is only unconstitutional if it involves race, religion, alienage, or sex.

(B) Petrolia, because the state's interest in hiring local residents outweighs the interest of nonresidents.

(C) Driller, because the law denies him the privileges and immunities of state citizenship.

(D) Driller, because the preferential hiring law impairs Driller's rights under the Contract Clause of the federal Constitution.

\section{Question 8}

In response to growing concern over public health issues, Congress passed legislation permitting states to completely ban the sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products. The legislation was subsequently upheld by the United States Supreme Court. The state of Jefferson, like most states, did not enact a complete ban on tobacco products. However, it passed a compromise measure that banned all ads for cigarettes and tobacco products by any print or broadcast media located in the state.

A state tobacco distributor that wished to advertise in local newspapers brings an action in federal court to challenge the state statute. The court will probably find the statute:

(A) Unconstitutional, because by choosing not to exercise its right to impose a complete ban on the sale of tobacco products, the state can no longer claim that the regulation of advertising serves a substantial government interest.

(B) Unconstitutional, because the right to ban all truthful advertising for a product is not automatically justified by the right to ban the sale of a product entirely.

(C) Constitutional, because the state's power to ban advertising for a product is implicit in its power to ban the product altogether.

(D) Constitutional, because the ban on advertising constitutes a restriction on commercial speech that is rationally related to the legitimate state interest in reducing the use of tobacco products. 

\section{CONSTITUTIONAL LAW}

\section{Question 9}

The citizens of Tidytown prided themselves on the neatness and beauty of the town of 30,000 people. This was reflected in the tough anti-litter ordinances that had been passed by the city council. Littering offenses carried fines of up to \$ 500$ and were always very strictly enforced. Center Park was located near the downtown business area of Tidytown. Signs at each of the park entrances, and on the many trash barrels situated throughout the park, carried conspicuous warnings against littering.

On October 15, a group of students from nearby colleges chose Center Park in Tidytown as the site for their demonstration against the proliferation of weapons in space. Approximately 125 students gathered in the park with placards and banners, and several speakers addressed the group. One of the speakers, Demagoga, during the course of her speech, walked to one of the trash barrels and dumped the contents out on the ground. As she did so, she told her listeners, "This is what outer space is starting to look like, cluttered with the trash of nuclear weapons." The meeting broke up 15 minutes later. The students left the park peacefully, but no one bothered to pick up the trash or right the overturned barrel. Demagoga was arrested pursuant to the Tidytown littering ordinance. She was fined \$ 500$ after her conviction.

If Demagoga seeks to have her conviction set aside on constitutional grounds, she is likely to:

(A) Lose, because the anti-littering ordinance furthers an important governmental interest and is not aimed at communication.

(B) Lose, because Demagoga was convicted for her conduct rather than for what she said.

(C) Win, because Demagoga's conduct constituted symbolic speech.

(D) Win, unless the town can prove a compelling interest in its anti-litter laws.

\section{Question 10}

A statute in the state of Lemon forbids employers from discriminating on the basis of religion; however, an exception provides that established religions that employ persons to engage in nonprofit activities may be exempted from this rule. A new religion sprang up called the Church of the Sunrise. It espoused a number of nontraditional views, among which was the belief that the sun is really a temple that is moved across the sky by a powerful race of aliens. When the Church gained enough members to open a meeting place, it advertised for clerical and maintenance workers. Patricia applied for a position and was told that she would be hired if she converted to the Church of the Sunrise religion. Patricia refused to do so and complained to the state of Lemon human relations board. After investigating, the board concluded that the Church was not an established religion and its beliefs were not plausible. It ruled that the religious exemption would not be applicable and ordered the Church to hire Patricia. Church officials filed an action in federal district court challenging the board's refusal to apply the exemption.

How is the court likely to rule?

(A) The board may not refuse to apply the exemption unless it can prove scientifically that the Church's beliefs are false.

(B) The board may not refuse to apply the exemption because it does not have compelling grounds for favoring other religions over this one.

(C) The entire exemption scheme is unconstitutional because it does not have a secular purpose and has a primary effect of advancing religion.

(D) The board may refuse to apply the exemption because the state has the power to deny any religion the right to discriminate in its hiring. 

\section{Question 11}

With an election approaching, Congress passed a statute requiring that all full-time employees, including state and municipal employees, be paid overtime for any work over 40 hours per week, or be otherwise compensated through time off or vacation time.

Patchquilt was a municipality located in a very warm climate. Many Patchquilt residents were on welfare, and the town contained no major industry or shopping district to bolster its tax base. Patchquilt employed only three refuse collectors and asserted reasonably that it could not afford to hire more. However, during the warmest times of the year, extra refuse collections were routine because of the city council's fear that rotting garbage in the hot climate could contribute to the spread of disease. During the hottest months, the three refuse collectors in Patchquilt regularly worked well beyond the 40 hours per week standard. Because of normal vacation time and the normally heavy garbage collection schedule, it would not be possible to give the refuse collectors additional time off during the cooler months, which were not always very cool, without hiring additional refuse collectors. Patchquilt brings an action in federal district court, asserting that the federal statute requiring overtime pay to municipal workers is unconstitutional.

The court should hold the statute: (A) Constitutional, as a reasonable application of the Necessary and Proper Clause.

(B) Constitutional, because regulation of state and local employees is within the ambit of federal power over interstate commerce.

(C) Unconstitutional, because regulation of state and local employees is an issue reserved to the states.

(D) Unconstitutional, because the state police power to promote health and safety precludes federal action in this case. 

\section{CONSTITUTIONAL LAW}

\section{Question 12}

Large semi-trailer trucks ordinarily used either "Gripper" tires or "Grabber" tires. There was some difference in the design of the tires, and a number of tire manufacturers made both types of tires, which were deemed to be equally safe by independent testing labs. Most state statutes and vehicle regulations allowed the use of both types of tires on state highways. However, State Plum and State Apricot had laws on their books permitting only Grippers and banning Grabbers. State Grapefruit, on the other hand, had a statute allowing the use of Grabbers, and banning Grippers, on its state highways. The National Trucking Board, a trade association of interstate trucking firms, brought suit to have the laws of State Plum and State Apricot declared unconstitutional. The case eventually reached the United States Supreme Court, which struck down the Apricot and Plum statutes as undue burdens on interstate commerce.

The National Trucking Board then brought suit in federal court to have the State Grapefruit statute banning Grippers struck down. The Grapefruit attorney general argued that the Grapefruit statute did not burden interstate commerce because Grabbers were now legal in all 50 states. The case eventually reached the United States Supreme Court.

How should the Court rule on the constitutionality of the statute?

(A) Constitutional, because there is no difference in safety between Grippers and Grabbers.

(B) Constitutional, because the states have the power to regulate safety on their highways.

(C) Unconstitutional, because it is an undue burden on interstate commerce.

(D) Unconstitutional, because it violates the Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV.

\section{Question 13}

The President of the United States entered into a bilateral agreement with Nerddistan, a sovereign nation, regarding the probate of estates. One part of the agreement provided that, should a citizen of Nerddistan die owning property in the United States or its Commonwealths or Territories, the executor or administrator appointed in Nerddistan should have the power to deal with such property and a separate American administrator or executor need not be appointed. Reciprocal rights were extended to United States citizens who died owning property in Nerddistan. Tadzik, a citizen of Nerddistan, died owning property in the United States state of Gulfstream. Tadzik's will appointed Elwwan, a citizen of Nerddistan, as executor. A law in the state of Gulfstream requires that all property left by will within the state of Gulfstream be probated by an executor or administrator who is a resident of Gulfstream.

If Elwwan desires to act as executor of the estate and properly distribute the Gulfstream property in accordance with Tadzik's will, should he be allowed to do so, notwithstanding the Gulfstream statute?

(A) No, because the probate of real property within the state is within the exclusive purview of the state.

(B) No, because an executive agreement is not a treaty, and state law takes precedence over executive agreements.

(C) Yes, because executive agreements supersede state laws.

(D) Yes, because executive agreements are entitled to full faith and credit. 

\section{Question 14}

Congress passed a statute providing that if the President deployed more than 1,000 United States Armed Forces personnel in a foreign country where "combat conditions" existed, the President was required to return such Armed Forces to the United States within 60 days or formally seek a declaration of war from Congress. The statute further provided that, if Congress failed to declare war within 30 days of the President's request, the President was required to return the Armed Forces to the United States.

After several tense incidents, the President ordered 10,000 troops from the Army and Marine Corps to land in Culebra, a Central American republic. The American forces had been fired on and had fired back, and they had continued to receive and inflict casualties. The 60-day period passed, but the President refused to go to Congress to seek a declaration of war, and in a televised address to the nation accused Congress of an unconstitutional attempt to usurp powers denied to it by the Constitution.

What is Congress's best argument for the constitutionality of the statute?

(A) In making decisions concerning foreign affairs, the President must first obtain the advice and consent of the Senate.

(B) The statute does not limit the President's power to repel invasions.

(C) The President cannot institute military actions in foreign countries without a declaration of war, and only Congress has the right to declare war.

(D) The statute reflects the balance between the legislature and the executive branch in their shared control over the Armed Forces.

\section{Question 15}

In the wake of revelations regarding safety hazards and toxic emissions from plants processing radioactive materials, a bill was introduced into the legislature of State Green barring the processing of plutonium, a radioactive artificial element, in State Green. After extensive public hearings it was clear that the bill had strong support in both houses of the state legislature and that, if called to a vote, the bill would pass easily. Governor Luddite had also made a major speech announcing that he would sign such a bill. However, a few members of the legislature raised questions as to the bill's constitutionality. The constitution of State Green provides that the state supreme court may hand down declaratory judgments, and the question of the bill's constitutionality was brought before the state supreme court. The court ruled that the bill, in the form it was introduced into the legislature, is constitutional.

There is only one plutonium processing plant in State Green. It is owned and operated by Master Minerals Corporation. The plant operates under contract with the federal government and is highly profitable for Master Minerals. Master Minerals seeks to have the judgment of the state supreme court overturned, and its attorneys have filed appropriate papers to bring the case before the United States Supreme Court.

The Court should:
(A) Not hear the matter, because no case or controversy exists.
(B) Review the state court's opinion and reverse it.
(C) Review the state court's opinion and affirm it.
(D) Not review the state court's opinion, because it is based on an independent state ground. 

\section{CONSTITUTIONAL LAW}

\section{Question 16}

Rupert held a majority ownership interest in one of the three daily newspapers in City, as well as numerous other media outlets across the country. When a popular City radio station was put on the market, he entered into negotiations to purchase it. However, the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") blocked the sale on the basis of a regulation forbidding ownership of a radio or television station to any entity owning a daily newspaper in the same city. The next year, however, the FCC suspended enforcement of that regulation to permit the radio station to be sold to Sumner, the owner of another daily newspaper in City. Rupert filed an action in federal district court seeking to enjoin the sale.

The court should:

(A) Decide the case on the merits, because Rupert can claim that the FCC's unequal treatment of the two transactions violated the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.

(B) Decide the case on the merits, because Rupert can claim that the FCC's refusal to allow him to own the station violated his freedom of speech rights under the First Amendment.

(C) Dismiss the action, because Rupert cannot show that enjoining the transaction will eliminate any injury that he might have suffered.

(D) Dismiss the action, because the federal government has the power to regulate ownership of the broadcast media.

\section{Question 17}

The state of Plains was the headquarters of Bushel Basket Ministries, which had been characterized by the government as a "religious cult." Seeking to broaden his influence, the leader of Bushel Basket, Reverend Bill E. Bob, decided that the state legislature would serve as an effective pulpit for his religious views by giving him a great deal of media exposure and direct mail resources. The state of Plains had no provision barring members of the clergy from serving as legislators. Bob entered a race that already had several other candidates and took advantage of the state's liberal voter registration laws by having many of his followers move into the district a month before the election. Bob's subsequent victory in the race shocked the political establishment and prompted a citizens' group to file a lawsuit in federal district court. The suit, invoking the Establishment Clause, sought to enjoin the state from seating Bob in the legislature or expending any state funds to provide him with legislative privileges. Bob moved to dismiss the lawsuit.

Should the court grant Bob's motion?
(A) Yes, because the Eleventh Amendment bars this type of action against a state by its citizens.
(B) Yes, because a political question is in- volved.
(C) No, because citizens have standing to challenge government expenditures that may violate the Establishment Clause.
(D) No, because the lawsuit is not seeking damages from the state. 





\section{Contracts}

\section{Question 1}

Babe was a professional baseball player who was known both for his prowess at the plate and his perceived "heart of gold." One day, Babe was visiting a sick boy named Jimmy in the hospital. Babe was touched by Jimmy's will to live despite a very poor prognosis. In a moment of weakness, Babe told Jimmy that in consideration of Jimmy's courage, he would do anything that Jimmy asked. Jimmy's eyes momentarily gleamed as he asked Babe to "hit a homer for me in your next game." Babe replied, "Sure kid." As Babe was leaving Jimmy's hospital room, Jimmy's father, Joe, pulled Babe aside and told Babe, "It would mean a lot to Jimmy if you would hit a home run for him in your next game. The medicinal value of raising Jimmy's spirits would be priceless." Babe replied, "Hey man, we all have problems. I don't work for the Make a Wish Foundation." Undaunted, Joe repeated that it would really raise Jimmy's spirits if Babe would hit a homer, and as incentive, Joe told Babe that he would pay Babe \$ 5,000$ if Babe did hit a home run in his next game. Babe replied, "You've got a deal." To raise his chances of collecting the \$ 5,000$ from Joe, Babe took extra batting practice before his next game, and the practice paid off because in his next game, Babe hit two home runs. During a post-game interview, Babe explained, "I did it for little Jimmy, who is in the hospital." After showering, Babe went directly to Joe's house and asked Joe for \$ 5,000$. Babe's contract with his ball club does not forbid him from accepting money from fans for good performance.

If Joe refuses to pay and Babe brings an action against Joe for damages, which of the following is correct under the modern trend in contract law?

(A) Babe can recover the \$ 5,000$ because the preexisting duty rule does not apply where the duty is owed to a third person.

(B) Babe can recover the \$ 5,000$ if he can prove that the value of the home run to Jimmy is at least \$ 5,000$. (C) Babe cannot recover from Joe because Babe had a preexisting duty to use his best efforts to hit home runs.

(D) Babe cannot recover from Joe because, even under the modern trend, moral consideration is not valid.

\section{Question 2}

On January 2, 1993, Cheap lent Deadbeat \$ 1,000$ and the parties agreed in writing that Deadbeat would repay Cheap on or before January 2, 1994. Deadbeat failed to repay Cheap, and on January 6,1999, Cheap phoned Deadbeat and told him, "If you'll pay me \$ 600$ now, I'll forget all about that unpaid \$ 1,000$ debt." Deadbeat agreed orally and then sent Cheap a signed letter which stated, "I, Deadbeat, agree to pay Cheap \$ 600$." Deadbeat never paid Cheap the \$ 600$ and Cheap sued Deadbeat. The statute of limitations on suits for debt in the jurisdiction is five years.

Cheap is entitled to recover:

(A) \$ 1,000$, because the agreement by Deadbeat to pay Cheap \$ 600$ revived the original \$ 1,000$ obligation.

(B) \$ 600$, because Deadbeat's moral obligation to pay Cheap \$ 1,000$ became the consideration for Deadbeat's agreement to pay Cheap \$ 600$.

(C) Nothing, because the statute of limitations has run.

(D) Nothing, because no additional consideration was provided to support Deadbeat's agreement to pay Cheap \$ 600$. 

\section{CONTRACTS}

\section{Question 3}

For a number of years, United Leasing has been in charge of leasing the luxury skyboxes at City Sports Stadium, home of the local professional basketball team. During this time, it annually sent to chief executives of area businesses personalized "invitations" to lease skyboxes for the season. The invitations, which were always sent out several months before each season began, contained detailed price terms and language stating that the deadline for responding was 10 weeks before the start of the season and that all leases were subject to the approval of the management of United Leasing. Executives at Multimedia Marketing had always responded to their invitation immediately by registered mail because they found it very worthwhile to lease a skybox to entertain their clients. During the five years that they had responded affirmatively to the invitation, they never received any additional communications from United Leasing regarding approval, but the tickets and an invoice would arrive about a week before the season began.

Several months before the current season, Multimedia received and immediately responded to its invitation. Two weeks before the season began, a stunning trade brought the league's most popular star to the City basketball team, prompting a dramatic increase in the demand for tickets. A few days later, Multimedia, which had already scheduled in a number of clients to attend games in its skybox, received a notice from United Leasing stating that management had not approved Multimedia's lease of the skybox for this season. In a separate announcement to all area businesses, United Leasing announced that all available skyboxes would be leased for three- or five-year terms, and that an auction of the leases would be conducted if the demand exceeded the supply.

Multimedia decided that it was not financially feasible to commit itself to anything longer than a one-year lease. It sent a letter to United Leasing, stating that a contract was created between the parties and that United Leasing will be in breach if it does not perform. Is Multimedia correct in its assertions?
(A) Yes, because United Leasing's failure to reject Multimedia's offer within a reason- able time constituted an acceptance under the circumstances.
(B) Yes, because United Leasing's "invitation" to Multimedia was an offer, which Multi- media accepted.
(C) No, because United Leasing was entitled to reject Multimedia's offer when it did.
(D) No, but Multimedia would be able to recover reliance damages from United Leasing under a quasi-contract theory. 

\section{Question 4}

Bernaise, the sole proprietor of Bernaise Distributors, a food service and food brokerage concern, entered into oral negotiations with Hollandaise, president and chief executive officer of Holsauce, a corporation that manufactured gourmet food products for restaurants and select retail outlets. Bernaise wished to secure an exclusive distributorship for Holsauce products in the six New England states. After some discussion, Bernaise and Hollandaise agreed on all salient points and shook hands on the deal. They agreed further that Hobson, Holsauce's general counsel, would reduce the agreement to writing and that the agreement would become effective after it was drawn up and initialed by Hobson and by Barker, Bernaise's counsel. Hobson duly committed the agreement to writing and sent the writing to Barker, but without initialing it first. Barker looked over the agreement, made no changes, initialed it, and mailed the agreement to Hobson on May 1. On May 2, Hollandaise decided that Bechamel would be a better distributor than Bernaise. Therefore, also on May 2, Hollandaise had Hobson telephone Barker, telling him, "The deal's off." Barker responded, "The heck it is. We have an enforceable contract." Hobson received the written agreement with Barker's initials on it on May 3. According to Hollandaise's instructions, Holsauce began to distribute its products in New England through Bechamel.

If Bernaise files suit against Hollandaise and Holsauce for breach, he is likely to:

(A) Prevail, because the mailing of the written agreement to Barker constituted an irrevocable offer.

(B) Prevail, because Bernaise and Hollandaise entered into a valid oral contract.

(C) Not prevail, because Hobson never initialed the written agreement and there was, therefore, failure of an express condition.

(D) Not prevail, because Hobson's phone call to Barker constituted a valid revocation before acceptance.

\section{Question 5}

Fat Goose Foods ("FGF") was a manufacturer of quality pates and terrines made from imported goose livers and truffles. In a written agreement between FGF and Gourmet Mart ("GM"), a retail seller of fine quality foods, FGF agreed to "sell all output of Fat Goose Foods liver pate to Gourmet Mart," and GM agreed to "sell Fat Goose Foods pates exclusively." The agreement went on to state that GM would pay \$ 150$ for each 10 -loaf container of pates ordered from FGF. The agreement between GM and FGF also contained the statement, "either party may cancel this contract after two months upon giving reasonable notice to the other party." Assume that, after FGF faithfully filled GM's orders for six months, FGF determined that it was becoming too costly to operate the special oven used to roast the pate loaves. The oven had been manufactured in Belgium in 1937, but the plant that manufactured the oven was destroyed by bombing during World War II, and no more of the ovens were produced after 1940 . It would be difficult and expensive to find a suitable substitute, and when the oven malfunctioned, replacement parts were extremely difficult to find and very costly as well. FGF, therefore, decided to get out of the pate business entirely and to use its supply of goose livers to make a German-style liver sausage. FGF notified GM of its decision and the reasons for it, and shortly thereafter stopped shipping pate to GM. GM sued FGF, demanding that FGF continue to ship pate to GM or pay monetary damages to GM.

Will GM prevail?
(A) Yes, because it was not impossible for FGF to perform.
(B) Yes, because FGF assumed the risk that making pate would become expensive.
(C) No, because the expense of fixing the oven provides a good faith reason for stopping production.
(D) No, because the cancellation provision made the contract illusory. 

\section{CONTRACTS}



\section{Questions 6-7} are based on the following fact situation:

Jenny, a general contractor, advertised in a trade publication that she planned to bid on the construction of a new building to be located in the Civic Mall. The advertisement welcomed bids from subcontractors to perform various functions, such as plumbing, electrical work, and masonry. The lowest electrical bid was from Ohmco, who bid \$ 20,000$. The lowest plumbing bid was from Plunger, who bid \$ 10,000$. Jenny used Ohmco's and Plunger's bids in preparing her general bid. At 2 p.m., on June 22, Jenny submitted her general bid. At 3 p.m., Plunger called her and said, 'I'm sorry, Jenny, but I made a mistake on that bid I submitted to you; I can't possibly do that plumbing work for a dime less than \$ 12,000$." Jenny told him, "I can't do anything about that because I've already submitted my general bid." Jenny was awarded the contract.


\section{6} Assume for purposes of this question only that after receiving the contract, Jenny hired Flusher to do the plumbing work on the building at a cost of \$ 12,000$. She now sues Plunger for damages. Jenny is entitled to recover:
(A) \$ 10,000$.
(B) \$ 2,000$, which represents the differ- ence between Plunger's bid and the amount Jenny had to pay for plumbing work.
(C) Nothing, because \$ 12,000$ was a reasonable amount to pay for the work performed.
(D) Nothing, because Jenny did not accept Plunger's bid before it was withdrawn.


\section{7} Assume for purposes of this question only that Jenny used Ohmco's \$ 20,000$ electrical bid to prepare her general bid, but, after Jenny was awarded the contract, she decided to hire subcontractor Wattco to perform the electrical work. Wattco had bid \$ 21,500$. Ohmco sues Jenny for damages. Will Ohmco prevail?
(A) Yes, because there was an implied acceptance that Jenny would use the lowest bid for electrical contracting.
(B) Yes, because Ohmco's bid was an offer for an option contract that was accepted upon acceptance of the general contract.
(C) No, because Jenny never communi- cated an acceptance of Ohmco's offer.
(D) No, because Jenny's advertisement for bids did not constitute an offer. 

\section{Question 8}

On April 1, Stan, a law student, agreed to sell his prized possession - an antique dictionaryto Betsy for \$ 1,500$, so that he could pay for his bar review course. Because Stan did not have to pay for his course until April 30, the written contract between Stan and Betsy provided that the dictionary would not be delivered to Betsy until April 20, thus giving Stan a last few extra days to peruse the dictionary's pages. Late on April 15, a terrible fire swept through Stan's apartment building and the dictionary was destroyed. Firefighters determined that the blaze started when Hugh, the tenant living below Stan, fell asleep while doing his taxes and dropped his cigarette onto his paperwork. Fortunately for Stan, he had insurance that covered all of his damages, including compensation for the destroyed dictionary. On April 20, Stan told Betsy of the fire, but still demanded payment, claiming that Betsy was the equitable owner of the dictionary when it was destroyed, and explaining that she could have obtained insurance on the dictionary had she wanted to, since she had an insurable interest in the dictionary as soon as the contract was made. Betsy refused to pay. Stan brings an action against Betsy for the \$ 1,500$.

Who will prevail?
(A) Betsy, because Stan was fully compensated for his dictionary and making Betsy pay would therefore result in unjust enrich- ment.
(B) Betsy, because destruction of the dictionary avoids the contract and discharges her duty to pay.
(C) Stan, because when he contracted with Betsy, the risk of loss passed to her.
(D) Stan, because of the doctrine of equitable conversion.



\section{Questions 9-10} are based on the following fact situation:

Popeye owned a large fleet of buses. He was fortunate enough to have won the contract to bus all the schoolchildren in a large midwestern city and most of its surrounding suburbs. He purchased a number of new vehicles to expand his fleet. Popeye had farmed out the maintenance of the buses to a number of different repair shops, but he now desired the consistent results obtainable from dealing with one repair and maintenance operation. He therefore contracted in writing with Bluto that all general maintenance and extraordinary repairs required for Popeye's buses would be performed by Bluto, who owned and operated "Bluto's Bus and Truck Center." A schedule of fees for most standard repairs was included in the contract. It happened that Popeye's wife, Olive, owned and operated a small advertising agency. Popeye wanted Olive's business to succeed, and so he included a clause in his agreement with Bluto that Bluto would place all his ads for his repair shop through Olive's agency during the oneyear term of the agreement.


\section{9} Assume for purposes of this question only that for six months Bluto dutifully placed all his ads through Olive's agency and informed her of his agreement with Popeye. During that time, Olive turned down work from two prospective clients because of the time that she would have to devote to designing and disseminating ads from Bluto. Bluto then discovered that Popeye was having some of his buses repaired and maintained by other shops. Bluto immediately ceased placing ads through Olive and employed another agency. Can Olive successfully bring suit against Bluto to enforce the agreement?
(A) Yes, because she partially performed by placing ads for Bluto during the first six months of the agreement.
(B) Yes, because she detrimentally relied on Bluto's promise to place ads when she refused other clients.
(C) No, because Olive provided no con- sideration for the agreement between Popeye and Bluto.
(D) No, because Popeye's exclusive use of Bluto's repair shop was a condition for Bluto's duty to purchase ads through Olive, and Popeye's actions excused Bluto's duty to Olive.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE 

\section{CONTRACTS}


\section{10} Assume for purposes of this question only that Popeye dutifully sent all his buses to Bluto for repair and maintenance. However, six months into the agreement, Popeye divorced Olive. Although Bluto had been placing all his ads through Olive, Popeye told Bluto, "You don't have to place ads with Olive anymore." Bluto promptly began placing ads through another agency. Olive then learned of the agreement between Popeye and Bluto. Popeye continued to send all his buses to Bluto. Can Olive enforce the agreement in her favor?
(A) Yes, because she was an intended beneficiary of the agreement between Popeye and Bluto.
(B) Yes, because Olive had an enforceable contract with Bluto concerning the advertising.
(C) No, because Popeye and Bluto had a right to modify their agreement without Olive's permission.
(D) No, because Olive was a gratuitous beneficiary whose rights depended on her status as Popeye's wife.



\section{Questions 11-12} are based on the following fact situation:

Alice entered into a written agreement with Moran, whereby Moran agreed to remodel the basement of Alice's home, and Alice agreed to pay Moran \$ 8,000$ upon completion of the job. The agreement contained a list of specifications as to the types of materials to be used in the remodeling. Among these specifications was a provision that Moran was to use an imported Brazilian hardwood for the paneling. Moran began the job, and then assigned his right to payment under the agreement to Nicholls. When the job was a little more than half completed, Alice sold the house to Bill. In a document separate from the deed of conveyance, Alice assigned her right to Moran's labor and delegated her duty to pay under the contract to Bill. 11. Assume for purposes of this question only that Moran completed the job on time but used Wyoming knotty pine instead of Brazilian hardwood for the paneling. The knotty pine is considered to be inferior to the Brazilian hardwood and is much less expensive, and Bill was very displeased when he saw the result. Who can Bill sue for breach?
(A) Alice only.
(B) Moran only.
(C) Moran and Nicholls.
(D) Alice, Moran, and Nicholls.


\section{12} Assume for purposes of this question only that Moran completed the job on time but used Argentinian hardwood instead of Brazilian hardwood. The Argentinian hardwood is virtually identical in appearance and is considered equivalent in value to the Brazilian hardwood, and they are often used interchangeably in the construction industry. Upon learning of the substitution, Bill refused to pay Nicholls. If Nicholls files suit against Alice for payment, will the court find Alice liable to pay Nicholls?
(A) Yes, unless there was a nonassignment clause in the contract between Alice and Moran.
(B) Yes, but only as a surety for Bill.
(C) No, because Alice delegated her duty to pay to Bill and Alice is no longer liable on the contract.
(D) No, because the remodeling work was not performed according to specifica- tions. 

\section{Question 13}

With the busy summer beach season fast approaching, Trendee of Bayonne, a retail women's wear store, ordered 100 women's swimsuits at \$ 10$ each, as advertised in the catalog of Stingray, a manufacturer of swimwear. Stingray shipped Trendee 40 swimsuits, along with a letter, stating in relevant part: "We have shipped you 40 swimsuits at \$ 10$ each as per your recent order. Please remit \$ 400$ to Stingray. Be informed that we will be unable to ship the additional 60 suits you requested at this time or at any time during this year's beach season." Trendee took the 40 suits, put them on their salesracks, and began to sell them. Trendee immediately sought an alternate supplier of swimsuits. The best price it could obtain was \$ 11$ per suit from Flying Fish Industries. Trendee ordered, received, accepted, and paid for 60 suits at \$ 11$ each from Flying Fish. Trendee has refused to pay Stingray.

If Stingray sues Trendee, Stingray is entitled to:

(A) \$ 400$, the contract price for the 40 suits delivered by Stingray and accepted by Trendee.

(B) \$340, the contract price for the 40 suits, less Trendee's cover damages.

(C) The fair market value of the 40 suits, less the \$ 60$ cover damages.

(D) Nothing, because it failed to fully perform the contract.

\section{Question 14}

Via a circular, WidgeCo, a manufacturer of widgets, sent an offer to Distrucorp, a major wholesaler. WidgeCo offered a standard lot (quantity well-known in the widget trade) of widgets for \$ 8,000$. This was a good price, and the president of Distrucorp personally mailed back to WidgeCo Distrucorp's standard printed acceptance form. However, the president wrote "in large letters in his own hand on the form, "Our liability on this contract is limited to \$ 200$." Two days later, the WidgeCo sales manager received the communication from Distrucorp. A week later, WidgeCo had sent no additional communication to Distrucorp.

Assuming no additional facts, what is the relationship between the parties?

(A) There is no contract between WidgeCo and Distrucorp, because Distrucorp made a material alteration.

(B) There is a valid, enforceable contract between WidgeCo and Distrucorp, but it is limited to the terms of WidgeCo's offer.

(C) There is a valid, enforceable contract between WidgeCo and Distrucorp, and it contains the additional term because WidgeCo raised no objection.

(D) Distrucorp has sent a valid counteroffer to WidgeCo, which WidgeCo can accept or reject. 

\section{CONTRACTS}

\section{Question 15}

Tekmart, a leading computer supply retailer, contacted Megabyte, a manufacturer of blank diskettes, on October 25 to supplement the supply of diskettes at Tekmart's area stores. In response, Megabyte offered to supply 50 cartons of boxed diskettes at \$ 200$ a carton, for a total price of \$ 10,000$, delivery one week after acceptance, and sent a letter containing those contractual terms to Tekmart on October 26 . The president of Tekmart signed the letter on October 27 without making any changes to it and sent it back to Megabyte by first class mail. The next day, having not heard from Tekmart, Megabyte's sales manager contacted the president of Tekmart and informed him that, if Tekmart accepted by the end of the month, it would receive a $1 \%$ discount in the total price. When Tekmart's president responded that he had already sent the acceptance, the sales manager assured him that the discount would still apply. On October 31, Tekmart received a circular from Dataco offering comparable diskettes for $5 \%$ less than Megabyte's price. The president of Tekmart immediately faxed a rejection to Megabyte. Megabyte received the rejection immediately but took no action on it. The next day, November 1, Megabyte received the signed contract from Tekmart. What is the status of the agreement between the parties?

(A) An enforceable contract was formed for \$ 9,900$ because Tekmart accepted before October 31 and needed no additional consideration for the oral modification.

(B) An enforceable contract was formed for \$ 10,000$ because the parol evidence rule precludes Tekmart from offering evidence of the telephone conversation.

(C) An enforceable contract was formed for \$ 10,000$ because, even though Tekmart accepted before October 31 , the Statute of Frauds makes the oral modification between the parties unenforceable.

(D) An enforceable contract was not formed between the parties because Tekmart's rejection was received before its acceptance. 

\section{Question 16}

Tommy was in his third year of college, and Tommy's father, Dad, often sent Tommy money to help Tommy pay for books and for living expenses. During the last winter break, Tommy brought his girlfriend Gidget home to meet his family. Dad took an instant dislike to Gidget, and has continually lectured Tommy about her, insisting that Tommy could find someone "more refined" to date.

In early March, Tommy telephoned Dad from College Village, where the university was located. Tommy asked Dad for \$ 1,000$. Dad told Tommy, "I'll send you the thousand bucks, but if you don't find a classier girlfriend than that Gidget person, this is the last subsidy you'll get from me, young man." Tommy thanked Dad, and promptly went to a jeweler with Gidget, where Tommy and Gidget selected an engagement ring priced at \$ 5,000$. Tommy, who was 21 years of age, signed a contract to purchase the ring. The contract required Tommy to make a \$1,000 down payment and then to make a series of installment payments. Tommy planned to use the \$ 1,000$ check he was expecting from Dad for the down payment. Tommy and Gidget both worked at part-time, minimum wage jobs while they attended school. Through a friend who lived in College Village, Dad discovered Tommy's plan to buy Gidget an expensive engagement ring. Dad refused to send Tommy the \$ 1,000$ check. The jeweler is now demanding that Tommy make the \$ 1,000$ down payment on the ring and pay the first installment as well. Can Tommy legally enforce Dad's promise to send Tommy \$ 1,000$ ?
(A) Yes, because Tommy relied on Dad's promise and the doctrine of promissory estoppel applies.
(B) Yes, because Tommy was an intended beneficiary.
(C) No, because Dad's promise was a gift unsupported by consideration.
(D) No, because Dad did not promise to send the money with the expectation of inducing Tommy to buy an engagement ring for Gidget. 

\section{CONTRACTS}

\section{Question 17}

Ellen owns a high-style ladies' fashion store in Beverly Hills. Calvin is the designer and manufacturer of a world-famous line of original gowns.

On April 1, Ellen and Calvin signed a written agreement wherein Ellen was appointed the "sole and exclusive" retail distributor for Calvin's clothes in Beverly Hills. The contract provided that Calvin was to have the absolute right to cease doing business with Ellen "at any time and for any reasons Calvin chooses."

On May 1, Ellen handed Calvin a written order for \$ 50,000$ worth of his original gowns, to be delivered to Ellen on September 1. Calvin did not sign an acknowledgment of Ellen's order, but in her presence he set aside the originals designated in her order by putting her name on them.

To publicize her new line of merchandise, Ellen conducted a large advertising campaign announcing to the Beverly Hills public that she would have a wide selection of Calvin's originals on display on September 1. She also made substantial improvements to the store to display these clothes in lush and expensive settings.

On August 15 , Calvin wired Ellen, "Sorry, darling, I have to invoke my right to terminate our arrangement. Your competitor in Beverly Hills, Shannon, has made an offer for the clothes you ordered that I simply couldn't pass up. I know you'll understand. Best wishes, Calvin."

Upon receipt of the message, Ellen filed suit against Calvin. Calvin defends on the ground that his April 1 agreement with Ellen is unenforceable for lack of consideration because Ellen did not obligate herself under the contract in any way. How should the court rule on that issue?
(A) Any want of consideration at the formation stage was cured by Ellen's actual tender of a large order.
(B) The April agreement was, in effect, a "firm offer" between merchants and hence binding on both parties even though there was no consideration.
(C) There was sufficient consideration in Ellen's implied promise to exercise her best efforts to promote the sale of Calvin's gowns.
(D) Calvin set aside the gowns in Ellen's presence, and thereby apparently expressed his willingness to ship as per her order. 

\section{(b)oror}

BAR REVIEW









\section{Criminal Law}

\section{Question 1}

Dorothy's very best friend was Melissa, and Dorothy shared all of her secrets with her. Dorothy and her husband, Hank, often brought Melissa, a divorcee, along on vacations and dining engagements. One day, however, after being tipped off by a mutual friend, Dorothy went through Hank's drawer and discovered steamy love letters to him from Melissa. The tone of the letters made it obvious that Hank and Melissa had been having an affair for at least three years. Dorothy became furious, but kept repeating to herself, "Don't get mad, get even!" She purchased a handgun and waited for the right moment to use it. The moment occurred at a large outdoor barbecue celebrating Melissa's birthday. At the barbecue, Dorothy gave the gun to Melissa's 10-year-old nephew, Sammy. She told Sammy, "Why don't you go up and point this gun at your Auntie Melissa. When you pull the trigger a sign will come out saying, 'BANG! and Happy Birthday,' just like in the circus." Sammy took the gun, pointed it at Melissa, and pulled the trigger. However, Sammy's aim was faulty, and when the gun discharged the bullet struck Hank, killing him. The police quickly linked Dorothy to the crime.

Which of the following best describes the crime or crimes of which Dorothy can be properly convicted?

(A) Murder of Hank and attempted murder of Melissa.

(B) Murder of Hank, but not attempted murder of Melissa.

(C) Attempted murder of Melissa, but not murder of Hank.

(D) Attempted murder of Melissa or murder of Hank, but not both.

\section{Question 2}

Howard was supposed to be out of town on a three-day business trip. Because he completed his business more quickly than expected, he flew home on Wednesday night instead of Thursday afternoon. Howard arrived home and let himself into the house. He heard noises from the bedroom and, upon investigation, Howard was shocked to find his wife, Chastity, in bed with Nick, a good friend of Howard, who lived four blocks away. Nick dressed quickly and took off out the back door. Howard screamed a number of epithets at Chastity and then told her, "Nick's going to pay for this! Get me a drink! It will give me the steadiness to do what I have to do to avenge my honor." A frightened Chastity brought Howard a bourbon and water. Howard drank it quickly and demanded yet another drink. After consuming several more drinks, Howard unlocked the closet, pulled out a rifle, and loaded it. He then set off for Nick's house.

Howard arrived at Nick's about 10 minutes later. Nick had neglected to lock his front door, so Howard walked in. He found a trembling Nick in the living room, and Howard pointed the gun at him. Nick immediately began apologizing, blaming the affair on Chastity, and pleading for his life. Howard stood silently listening to Nick, but he kept the gun trained on his erstwhile friend. Suddenly, Nick pulled a switchblade knife from his pocket. As the metal flashed, Howard fired a single shot at Nick. The bullet struck him in the middle of the forehead and Nick died instantly. Howard set the gun down, fell to his knees, and began crying. A neighbor who heard the shot reported it to the police. They arrived a few minutes later and found a distraught Howard muttering about losing a friend and a marriage in one night.

Howard can be convicted of:
(A) Murder.
(B) Manslaughter, because Howard was still distraught over finding Nick in bed with Chastity.
(C) Manslaughter, because his intoxication prevented Howard from having the requi- site intent for murder.
(D) No homicide crime, because Nick was about to attack him with a knife. 

\section{CRIMINAL LAW}

\section{Question 3}

Larry was passing by a house under construction when he noticed that the ladder being used by workers on the roof had copper braces supporting the rungs. After making sure that the workers on the roof could not see him, Larry used a pliers that he had in his pocket to remove all of the copper braces that he could reach from the ground. A short time later, Vernon climbed down the ladder and it collapsed. He fell to the ground and severely injured his back. Larry was apprehended a few hours later trying to sell the copper for scrap.

A statute in the jurisdiction makes it a felony for "maliciously causing serious physical injury to another." Larry was charged with malicious injury under the statute and was also charged with larceny. After a jury trial in which the above facts were presented, he was convicted of both charges.

If Larry appeals the conviction for the malicious injury charge on grounds of insufficient evidence, how should the court rule?

(A) Affirm the conviction, because Larry was engaged in criminal conduct at the time of the act that resulted in the injury.

(B) Affirm the conviction, because the jury could have found that Larry acted with malice.

(C) Reverse the conviction, because there was no evidence that Larry intended to injure anyone.

(D) Reverse the conviction, because there was no evidence that Larry bore any malice towards Vernon or the other workers on the roof.

\section{Question 4}

Victor was desperately ill with a particularly virulent and painful form of cancer. He was permanently hospitalized and quite helpless as the killer disease tore at his vitals. Victor's daughter, Dana, was devoted to her dad. She visited him every evening in the hospital and spent many hours with him on the weekends. For over two months, Victor pleaded with Dana, "Please kill me and put me out of my misery. I'm in such terrible pain. The pangs of Hell couldn't be any worse than this!" Every day or evening that Dana visited, Victor would renew his plea to be killed. The staff doctors and nurses had often heard Victor's plaint. One Saturday afternoon, Dana paid her usual visit to Victor. His pleading was as heartrending as ever. With a tender expression on her face, Dana pulled a small revolver from her purse. She fired a shot at Victor, killing him instantly. Dana immediately broke into tears and repeatedly kissed the face of her dead father. Hospital authorities called the police, and Dana was charged with Victor's death.

What is the most serious offense of which Dana can be convicted?

(A) First degree murder, defined by the jurisdiction as premeditated and deliberate killing of another human being.

(B) Second degree murder, defined as any murder not classified as first degree murder.

(C) Voluntary manslaughter.

(D) No crime. 

\section{Question 5}

Andt lent his swim fins to his friend Gracehoper. Gracehoper promised to return the fins in a week, but two months had passed and, despite many reminders, Gracehoper still failed to return the fins. Andt decided to go to Gracehoper's cabin to retrieve them. Andt went to the cabin and knocked on the door, hoping to find Gracehoper at home. After knocking several times with no response, Andt tried the door and found it to be unlocked. Andt decided to look for the swim fins in Gracehoper's cabin and to retrieve them. Andt opened the door and entered Gracehoper's cabin. He looked around the cabin for $20 \mathrm{~min}$ utes, but he could not locate the swim fins. He concluded that Gracehoper was probably using them and left the cabin, taking nothing from it and closing the door behind him.

If Andt is later charged and tried for burglary, Andt's best defense to the charge is which of the following?
(A) Andt left the cabin without doing anything.
(B) Andt took nothing from the cabin.
(C) The swim fins belonged to Andt.
(D) Gracehoper's door was unlocked.



\section{Questions 6-7} are based on the following fact situation:

Kuegler, who had a long list of petty crimes to his credit, cased the Jaymart Department Store for a week. He noticed that a display case containing very expensive watches was near one of the store's exit doors. He planned to steal the watches by setting a diversionary fire in a trash basket, hoping that this would distract the store security personnel long enough for Kuegler to break the glass covering the watch case, grab the watches, and run out the nearby exit. Kuegler knew that the store had an automatic sprinkler system that would promptly douse the fire, but his purpose was merely to create a distraction rather than to cause any damage to the building. One afternoon at 2:30 p.m., Kuegler entered the Jaymart. He advanced to a trash barrel and poured some lighter fluid onto the trash. He threw the lighter fluid can into the barrel and tossed in a match after it. The lighter fluid immediately caused a long flame to rise. The flame quickly charred the wall next to the barrel and blistered the paint on the surrounding area. No serious damage was done to the structure, because the sprinklers operated as designed and quickly put out the fire before it could spread. Kuegler made a dash toward the case containing the watches, but just as he was breaking the glass case, one of the store's security guards apprehended Kuegler and called the police. Kuegler was read his Miranda rights and taken into police custody. A statute in the jurisdiction extends the crime of arson to buildings other than dwellings.


\section{6} If Kuegler is tried for the crime of arson, the court should find him:
(A) Not guilty, because Kuegler did not intend to burn the building.
(B) Not guilty, because Kuegler's act was sufficient only for attempted arson.
(C) Guilty, because Kuegler's conduct demonstrated the requisite state of mind for the crime.
(D) Guilty, because Kuegler started the fire during the act of perpetrating another felony.


\section{7} Which of the following best describes the crimes, if any, of which Kuegler could be properly convicted?
(A) Larceny only.
(B) Larceny and attempted arson.
(C) Attempted larceny and arson.


\section{ None of the above} CRIMINAL LAW

\section{Question 8}

In which of the following situations is the defendant least likely to be found guilty of an attempted crime?

(A) In order to track down "fences" and other distributors of stolen goods, police officers, with permission of the owners and insurers, forward stolen jewelry they have intercepted on the way to Don, a reputed fence. Don takes the jewelry, which he believes to be stolen. Don is arrested and charged with attempted receipt of stolen goods.

(B) Dewey, a 21-year-old male, believes the "age of consent" in the state to be 18 , and that sexual intercourse with a female under the age of 18 constitutes statutory rape. In fact, the statute applies only to females under the age of 16 . Dewey's girlfriend, Irma, is 17 years of age. With Irma's consent, Dewey engages in sexual intercourse with Irma. Later, Dewey brags in a bar, "I just made it with some jailbait." Dewey is arrested and charged with attempted statutory rape.

(C) Doreen, a community activist, is outraged that a bill to place greater restrictions on picketing is being debated in the state legislature. Doreen asks her lawyer, Lax, if she can conduct a demonstration in the state capitol building, where the legislature sits. Lax assures her that the United States Supreme Court has recently upheld a very similar case and tells Doreen she should act freely "because the First Amendment protects you." In fact, Lax did not read the case carefully. The Court allowed demonstrations on the capitol grounds, but not in the building itself. As Doreen carries her picket sign into the state capitol building, she is arrested by security guards and is charged by state police with attempting to conduct an illegal demonstration. (D) Hartigan, a police officer, disguises himself as an elderly homeowner as part of a police "sting" operation aimed at unscrupulous home repair operations. Drew, president and sole proprietor of Drew's Home Repairs, inspects the home that he believes belongs to Hartigan. Drew believes Hartigan is the homeowner and a senior citizen with failing mental powers. Drew's inspection of the home reveals the only plumbing problem to be a 25 -cent washer that needs replacing. Drew tells Hartigan that the plumbing in the house is in terrible shape, and that city building inspectors are likely to condemn the home if plumbing repairs are not made immediately. Drew offers Hartigan a contract to perform all required plumbing repairs for \$ 10,000$. Drew emphasizes that this is a "rock bottom price with a $20 \%$ senior citizen discount." Drew is arrested and charged with attempted theft by false pretenses. 

\section{Questions 9-10} are based on the following fact situation:

Jeffries was the chief of security for The Watervliet, a large, exclusive apartment complex. Most of The Watervliet's residents were quite wealthy, and Jeffries resented the fact that he had many responsibilities and received what he considered to be a paltry salary. Therefore, Jeffries was receptive when Garth told him that he would pay Jeffries \$ 250$ if Jeffries would obtain a key to the apartment of Mrs. Wealthy and give the key to Garth. Mrs. Wealthy was an affluent and socially prominent widow who resided in The Watervliet. The next day Jeffries obtained a key to Mrs. Wealthy's apartment and gave the key to Garth. Garth handed Jeffries the \$ 250$ in cash. Jeffries believed that Garth planned to use the key to take valuables from Mrs. Wealthy's apartment. In fact, Garth planned to pretend that he was a "Good Samaritan" returning a "lost key" to Mrs. Wealthy that Garth had fortuitously found in The Watervliet lobby. Garth felt that this ploy would gain him access to Mrs. Wealthy's apartment, where he planned to sell her a "real estate limited partnership share" in nonexistent Florida property.

Garth's plan worked up to a point. He brought the key to Mrs. Wealthy, who thanked him and invited him into her apartment for afternoon tea and watercress sandwiches. Garth attempted to sell the "limited partnership share" to Mrs. Wealthy, but she quickly surmised that the limited partnership was bogus and politely asked Garth to leave. Garth, a resourceful chap, did not want his \$ 250$ investment in the key to be a total waste of money, so he surreptitiously removed a small but valuable art deco bronze statuette from Mrs. Wealthy's foyer and left the apartment with it. 9. If Jeffries is arrested and appropriately charged with theft of the key and conspiracy to commit theft of the key, of what additional crime or crimes, if any, could Jeffries be charged and convicted?
(A) Attempted false pretenses.
(B) Conspiracy to commit burglary.
(C) Larceny, conspiracy to commit bur- glary, and conspiracy to commit false pretenses.
(D) None of the above.


\section{10} If Garth is arrested and appropriately charged with conspiracy to commit theft of the key and attempted false pretenses, of what additional common law crime or crimes could Garth be charged and convicted?
(A) Larceny.
(B) Burglary.
(C) Larceny and burglary.
(D) Larceny and conspiracy to commit burglary. 

\section{CRIMINAL LAW}

\section{Question 11}

Bulky was six foot four and weighed 280 pounds. One afternoon Bulky was wandering rather aimlessly and became lost in an unfamiliar part of the city. He reached into his pocket and discovered he only had 35 cents. He wanted to take a bus back to the city center, but bus fare was \$ 1$ per ride. Bulky was rather scruffily dressed and he had not had a haircut in several months. He approached Juan, a slightly built man who was standing alone at the bus stop. In a gruff voice, Bulky asked Juan, "Do you have any money?" When Juan replied, "Yes,"'Bulky said, "Give me five dollars!" Juan reached into his pocket and handed Bulky a five-dollar bill. Juan walked away from the bus and flagged down a passing patrol car. Juan told the police, "I've been robbed," and pointed out Bulky, who was still standing at the bus stop. Bulky was arrested and charged with robbery.

At Bulky's trial, Bulky took the stand in his own defense. Bulky testified, "I wasn't trying to rob anybody. I was just trying to beg some money to get myself back home."

If the jury believes Bulky's testimony, Bulky should be found:
(A) Not guilty of robbery, because Bulky lacked the requisite criminal intent.
(B) Guilty of robbery, because Bulky took Juan's money after intimidating him, and the effect of Bulky's size on Juan, rather than Bulky's intent, is controlling.
(C) Not guilty of robbery, but guilty of assault, because Bulky placed Juan in reasonable apprehension of bodily harm.
(D) Guilty of both robbery and assault, because assault is not a lesser included offense of robbery.

\section{Question 12}

Alert police officers noticed that a late-model "Belchfire 500" automobile was being driven at an excessive rate of speed. The car, driven by Doofus, was pulled over to the curb. As Officer Smith issued a speeding citation to Doofus, her partner, Jones, fed the license plate numbers into the police computer. It turned out that the Belchfire had been very recently reported as stolen. Doofus was unable to produce satisfactory registration papers and was arrested for car theft. At the police station, Smith gave Doofus the standard Miranda warnings, and Doofus agreed to answer Smith's questions regarding a local "chop-shop" network, which arranged for the theft of expensive automobiles so that they could be cut up for parts. After a while, Jones suggested, "Let's break for lunch." He and Smith escorted Doofus to a nearby cafeteria. During the course of their lunch, which lasted about an hour, Smith noticed that Doofus, who was otherwise rather shabbily dressed, was wearing an obviously expensive "Xelor" watch. Upon their return to the station, and without giving any new Miranda warnings, Smith resumed interrogation of Doofus. She asked Doofus about a recent home invasion in the swank "Notting Hill" neighborhood, where a quantity of valuable jewelry, including a "Xelor" watch, was taken. Doofus thereupon confessed to the home invasion, and was indicted on the home invasion charge, a felony under the jurisdiction's modern criminal code.

If Doofus files an appropriate motion to prevent the confession from being admitted at his trial, Doofus will probably:
(A) Succeed, because the police did not repeat the Miranda warnings before questioning Doofus about another crime.
(B) Succeed, because the police acted in a custodial setting.
(C) Fail, because Doofus was not in custody on a home invasion charge.
(D) Fail, because the original Miranda warn- ings given Doofus were sufficient under the circumstances. 

\section{Question 13}

Denise, a 12-year-old girl, entered a grocery store. When she believed that no one was looking, she grabbed two packages of "Blinkies," a popular confectionery item, and concealed them under her coat. As she attempted to leave the store, Gordon, a security guard employed by the store, grabbed Denise by the arm. He told her, "You're too young to be a thief!"' Denise began crying and blurted out, "I lost my lunch money on the way to school and I was really hungry!"

If Denise is charged with shoplifting, what is the State's best argument that Denise's Miranda rights have not been violated by Gordon?

(A) Gordon's statement was not interrogatory.

(B) It is discretionary whether to give juveniles Miranda warnings.

(C) Denise has not yet been arrested and formally charged with any crime.

(D) Gordon was not a government agent.



\section{Questions 14-15} are based on the following fact situation:

Soar Airlines Flight 226 was a flight from Miami to Washington, D.C., with an hour stopover in Orlando. At the Orlando Airport, Mike and Nick, holding tickets to Washington, D.C., disembarked from the plane. Each carried a rather large piece of carry-on baggage. Mike went into a telephone booth and placed a call, while Nick stood with his back to the booth, looking around in all available directions. Sam, an officer of the Federal Drug Enforcement Administration assigned to watch for drug activities at the Orlando Airport, noticed Mike and Nick. As soon as Mike emerged from the phone booth, Sam approached the two men. Sam identified himself and asked Mike and Nick, "Do you mind if I ask you a few questions?" Both agreed. After asking about such matters as their destination, Sam asked, "Do you mind if we go into my office and inspect what's in your hand baggage?" Both Mike and Nick agreed. In the office, Sam searched both pieces of luggage and found nothing suspicious in either. He then proceeded to pat down Mike and Nick. He found nothing on Mike, but he felt a bulge around Nick's stomach. Further investigation revealed that Nick was wearing a pouch around his waist which proved to contain cocaine. Mike and Nick were charged with possession of cocaine.


\section{14} At Nick's trial, the prosecution seeks to introduce the cocaine into evidence against Nick. Nick's attorney objects. The court should rule the cocaine:

(A) Admissible, because of the emergency conditions arising from the growing menace of drugs to the public.

(B) Admissible, because, in consenting to the search of his luggage, Nick impliedly consented to a body search.

(C) Inadmissible, because Sam had neither probable cause nor reasonable suspicion to search Nick.

(D) Inadmissible, because Sam had no right to search the luggage.


\section{15} Assume for purposes of this question only that Nick pleaded guilty to possession of cocaine. At Mike's preliminary hearing it has been stipulated that Mike owns the cocaine, but Mike's attorney brings a motion at the hearing to suppress the introduction of the cocaine at trial. How should the court rule on the motion?

(A) In favor, because Mike was not in possession of the cocaine.

(B) In favor, because Mike and Nick had a reasonable expectation of privacy when Sam elected to search them.

(C) Against, because Mike has already stipulated that he owns the cocaine.

(D) Against, because the search of Nick did not violate Mike's reasonable expectation of privacy.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE 

\section{CRIMINAL LAW}

\section{Question 16}

Simpson and two others were indicted on felony charges for electronic theft of bank accounts. Simpson protested that he was innocent and wanted to prove it at trial, but agreed to discuss a plea bargain with the district attorney. The district attorney indicated that he would also charge Simpson with additional theft by computer offenses if Simpson insisted on going to trial, but that if he pleaded guilty to the one charge and agreed to testify against his codefendants at their trial, the prosecution would recommend probation only. Because of the risk of jail time if he was convicted of any of the additional offenses, Simpson agreed.

When Simpson appeared in court, the judge informed him of the nature of the charge and the potential punishment, and that Simpson was waiving his right to trial by pleading guilty. She asked if his plea was voluntary and he replied that it was the best deal that he could get, but that he was really innocent of the crime charged. The judge nevertheless accepted the plea, reserving sentencing until Simpson testified against his co-defendants.

Just before trial of Simpson's co-defendants, they pleaded guilty and provided additional information of Simpson's central role in the crime and in additional computer theft offenses. At Simpson's sentencing, the prosecution introduced the testimony of Simpson's codefendants and asked the judge to impose a jail term. The judge sentenced Simpson to five years in prison for the crime to which he pleaded guilty.

Simpson appeals his sentence, raising the following arguments:

I. The prosecution threatened to bring additional charges when Simpson indicated that he was going to exercise his right to go to trial.

II. The judge accepted Simpson's guilty plea despite his claim of innocence. III. The prosecution did not adhere to the plea bargain after Simpson's co-defendants pleaded guilty.

Which of the above arguments provide a valid basis for vacating Simpson's guilty plea and sentence?
(A) I. and III.
(B) I., II., and III.
(C) II. and III.
(D) III. only. 

\section{Question 17}

Chaven was arrested in the city of Briggs, which is located in the state of Riverfront. He was charged with possession of illegal narcotics and placed on trial in the municipal court of Briggs. Chaven demanded a jury trial, which was duly granted. After the jury had been sworn, selected, and impaneled, Chaven's attorney, Fenway, filed a motion with the presiding judge praying for a dismissal based on a technical error in the bill of information drawn up by the city prosecutor. No witnesses had yet been sworn at the time Fenway filed the motion. The judge ordered an immediate recess while he considered the motion. Two days later he ruled in favor of defendant Chaven and dismissed the charges against him.

A week later a state grand jury indicted Chaven for possession of illegal narcotics with intention to distribute same. The charges arose out of the same incident and arrest described above. Chaven was ordered to appear in the superior court of the state of Riverfront to answer the charges. Fenway immediately filed a motion on Chaven's behalf asserting that it would be unconstitutional to retry Chaven in the state court. The best argument against granting the motion is which of the following?

(A) The city of Briggs and the state of Riverfront are separate sovereigns.

(B) The state charge requires the proving of a fact not required by the municipal charge.

(C) Chaven's trial in municipal court had not yet reached the stage where jeopardy attaches.

(D) The dismissal of the case in municipal court was based on a technicality that did not go to the merits of the case. 





$$
\text { . }
$$



\section{Evidence}

\section{Question 1}

Dassent was on trial on a hit and run charge, whereby the prosecution asserts that, while driving his vehicle, Dassent struck and injured Proctor, an elderly pedestrian, and then sped away from the scene of the accident without stopping to assess Proctor's injuries or to render assistance. During the prosecution's presentation of its case, three eyewitnesses testified that the car that struck Proctor had the license plate number DASS 53. A witness from the State Department of Motor Vehicles produced records showing that a vehicle with license number DASS 53 was registered in Dassent's name and that Dassent claimed on his driver's license application that he was born in 1953.

Dassent took the stand in his own defense. He admitted that a car meeting the description of the vehicle given by the eyewitnesses and bearing a license plate with the number DASS 53 belonged to him, but Dassent denied having driven the vehicle on the day that Proctor was injured. Without releasing Dassent as a witness, his lawyer called Father White, an Episcopal priest, to the stand. White is ready to testify that he has known Dassent for 12 years, that Dassent has performed many charitable acts, and that Dassent is a highly responsible person "who would not run away from his obligations by leaving the scene of an accident."

If the prosecution objects to White's proposed testimony, should the court bar White from testifying?

(A) No, because the testimony shows that Dassent is a person of good character.

(B) No, because the testimony is habit evidence tending to show that it was unlikely that Dassent was the perpetrator.

(C) Yes, because one may not use character evidence to bolster one's own testimony.

(D) Yes, because the prosecution has not made an issue of Dassent's character.

\section{Question 2}

Devlin is being tried for murder in the bludgeoning death of Vandross. Devlin denies any involvement in the crime. He calls Westin to the stand. Westin testifies that, in his opinion, Devlin is a nonviolent, peaceable man.

Which of the following, if offered by the prosecution, would most likely be admissible?

(A) A neighbor's testimony that Westin has beaten his wife on several occasions.

(B) A police officer's testimony that Devlin has a general reputation in the community as a violent person.

(C) A neighbor's testimony that Devlin has a reputation for being untruthful.

(D) Evidence that Devlin has a conviction for aggravated battery.

\section{Question 3}

Perry sued Don for bodily injuries suffered by Perry as a result of a collision between the cars they were driving. The accident occurred on a rainy day, when Don's car skidded across the center line and struck Perry's car. A principal issue is whether Don was driving too fast for the wet conditions. At trial, Perry calls Wally to the stand. Wally is prepared to testify that he has lived next door to Don for 15 years, and that Don is notorious in the neighborhood for driving his car at excessive rates of speed. Don's attorney objects.

May Wally's testimony be allowed?
(A) Yes, because Don's character as a careless driver is in issue.
(B) Yes, because character may be proven by reputation evidence.
(C) No, because the testimony is improper character evidence.
(D) No, because the testimony is hearsay, not within any exception. 

\section{EVIDENCE}

\section{Question 4}

On an icy day, a vehicle driven by Doug struck Peter's car in the rear, smashing a taillight and denting Peter's bumper. Before Peter could say anything, Doug rushed out of his car and told Peter, "Look, if you'll take \$ 500$ for the damage, I'm sure my insurance company will pay for it." Peter refused and sued Doug for damage to his car and minor personal injuries. Peter wishes to testify as to Doug's statement at the time of the accident. Doug objects.

Should the court allow Doug's statement to be admitted?
(A) Yes, because it is an admission of a party- opponent.
(B) Yes, because it is hearsay within the statement against interest exception.
(C) No, because the statement took the form of a settlement negotiation.
(D) No, because the statement is hearsay, not within any recognized exception to the hearsay rule.

\section{Question 5}

Doobad was on trial for armed robbery. The defense placed Doobad's friend Wendt on the stand as an alibi witness. Wendt testified that at the time of the armed robbery Doobad was engaged in other activities with Wendt. On cross-examination, the prosecutor asked Wendt, "Isn't it true, Mr. Wendt, that the grand jury has indicted you for the same crime as Mr. Doobad?" Doobad's lawyer knew that Wendt had been indicted for the armed robbery and was to be tried separately in two weeks, but she vigorously objected to the prosecutor's question.

Her objection should be:
(A) Sustained, because Wendt has been in- dicted, but not convicted, of the armed robbery.
(B) Sustained, because prior bad acts may not be introduced to impeach a witness.

(C) Overruled, because Wendt's indictment tends to show his criminal propensities.

(D) Overruled, because Wendt's indictment tends to show bias on the part of the witness.

\section{Question 6}

Denton was on trial in a civil torts action. He was charged with driving his car negligently and, as a result of his negligence, injuring Potts. Denton's friend, Weiner, was sitting in the passenger seat of the car driven by Denton when the accident occurred. Denton put Weiner on the stand, and Weiner testified that Denton was driving safely and well below the posted 55 mile-per-hour speed limit. Shortly before the trial began, Weiner's secretary, Sarah, telephoned Potts and told him, "You might be interested in knowing that Weiner has been understating his income to the government for years." The Internal Revenue Service has never charged Weiner with tax evasion, but Sarah's information was accurate. On cross-examination, Potts's attorney asked Weiner, "Have you ever cheated on your tax returns?" Denton's attorney objects.

The objection should be:
(A) Sustained, because the question is not relevant to the facts of the case at bar.
(B) Sustained, because witnesses may not be impeached through the use of collateral material.
(C) Overruled, because Weiner's tax evasion shows a tendency to lie.
(D) Overruled, because Weiner's acts constitute a felony punishable by at least one year in prison. 

\section{Question 7}

Dunbad was on trial for the murder of his wife Victa. During the course of the trial, the prosecution sought to introduce evidence that, six months before Victa's death, Dunbad had purchased a large insurance policy on her life, and two weeks prior to her death he purchased two more large policies on Victa's life from separate insurance carriers.

If the defense objects to admission of such evidence, the objection should be:

(A) Sustained, because such evidence would be more prejudicial than probative.

(B) Sustained, because evidence of insurance is inadmissible as a matter of public policy.

(C) Overruled, because the evidence tends to establish motive.

(D) Overruled, because the evidence tends to establish criminal propensity.

\section{Question 8}

Dogwood was put on trial for the robbery and aggravated battery of Birch. Despite having been seriously injured in the attack, Birch took the witness stand and identified Dogwood as his attacker. The first trial ended in a hung jury on both charges, and Birch died shortly thereafter from his injuries. The district attorney then charged Dogwood with felony murder. At the trial on that charge, the prosecution offers into evidence Birch's testimony at the first trial identifying Dogwood as his assailant. Dogwood's attorney immediately objects.

The objection should be:

(A) Sustained, because Birch's testimony was from a prosecution for a different offense than the present trial.

(B) Sustained, because the use of the former testimony of someone who has died violates the defendant's constitutional right to confront the witnesses against him in a criminal case. (C) Overruled, because Birch's testimony is nonhearsay under the Federal Rules as a statement of prior identification.

(D) Overruled, because the requirements of the exception to the hearsay rule for former testimony have been satisfied.

\section{Question 9}

Johnson, a small business owner, filed a treble damages civil antitrust suit against Greed Industries. While Greed's director of marketing, Mimms, was on the stand, Greed's attorney produced a "synopsis of sales," a document generated by Greed's marketing division. Johnson's attorney objected that the record is hearsay. Greed's attorney responded, "Your Honor, this is a business record and, as such, can be admitted into evidence as an exception to the hearsay rule." Johnson's attorney complained, "Your Honor, this so-called 'synopsis of sales' is some selfserving writing concocted for this litigation. The hearsay exception requires that business records be made in the ordinary course of business. I demand a hearing to determine whether this qualifies as a business record."

Which of the following is the most appropriate way for the issue to be decided?

(A) The issue should be decided by the judge after hearing evidence from Greed's attorney and Johnson's attorney outside the presence of the jury.

(B) The issue should be decided by the judge after hearing evidence from Greed's attorney and Johnson's attorney and may be conducted in the presence of the jury.

(C) The issue should be decided by the jury after hearing evidence from both sides.

(D) The issue should be decided by the judge after hearing evidence from both sides outside the presence of the jury, but if the document is admitted by the judge, Johnson may present evidence challenging that finding while presenting his case, and the ultimate decision rests with the jury. 

\section{EVIDENCE}

\section{Question 10}

Debra's car struck Peter, a pedestrian, and sped away from the scene of the accident. The car was linked to Debra, but she denies that she was driving the car when Peter was hit and injured. Peter sued Debra for his injuries. The only eyewitness, other than Peter, was Willie, a six-year-old child. During the trial, Peter put Willie on the stand, and Willie testified that he saw Debra driving the car that hit Peter. The defense elected not to cross-examine Willie. The plaintiff's next witness was Schrinkov, a child psychologist. Schrinkov, who had never met Willie before, was prepared to testify that, based on his observations of Willie on the witness stand, it was highly probable that Willie was telling the truth. Schrinkov was qualified as an expert witness with many years of experience dealing with children. However, the defense objected to any questions regarding the veracity of Willie.

Should Schrinkov be allowed to testify about Willie?
(A) Yes, because parties may put witnesses on the stand to reinforce or challenge the veracity of other witnesses.
(B) Yes, because an expert may be needed to explain how children testify in order to avoid confusing the jury.
(C) No, experts may not testify regarding veracity.
(D) No, because Willie's veracity has not yet been questioned.

\section{Question 11}

Plumber, a plumbing contractor, sued Drain, a homeowner. Plumber alleged that Drain refused to pay for extensive pipe repairs performed on Drain's home by Wilson, an employee of Plumber. Plumber called Wilson to the stand as a witness. Wilson, under oath, testified that he did not perform any work at Drain's home. Wilson also denied writing a letter to Lorca telling Lorca that Wilson was going to do plumbing work on Drain's house. Without releasing Wilson as a witness, Plumber offers in evidence the letter written by Wilson to Lorca.

Which of the following is not a proper basis for admitting Wilson's letter?
(A) Testimony by Wilson's wife that she recognizes Wilson's handwriting.
(B) Lorca's testimony that the statements in the letter are responsive to a prior letter from Lorca to Wilson.
(C) Comparison by the jury of the Wilson- Lorca letter with another letter that Wilson has admitted writing.
(D) In-court comparison by Lorca, a nonexpert, of the Wilson-Lorca letter with another letter that Wilson has admitted writing. 

\section{Question 12}

Trent was on trial for the statutory rape of Vanessa. He denied that she was even in his company on the night of the alleged offense, when he was working as the night clerk at a convenience store. The prosecution offers to have Warren testify that, in a phone conversation on the evening in question, Vanessa said, "I have to run; Trent wants me to stop by the store tonight while he's working." The defense objects to the proposed testimony.

Should the court allow Warren's testimony?

(A) Yes, as a present sense impression of Vanessa's.

(B) Yes, as evidence that Vanessa was in Trent's company that night.

(C) No, unless Vanessa is unavailable as a witness.

(D) No, because Vanessa's state of mind is not in issue.

\section{Question 13}

Darryl is being sued under a federal statute that allows an action for damages by victims of domestic violence committed on military bases or other federal land. The lawsuit stems from the alleged longtime physical abuse of Violet, who is the eight-year-old daughter of Darryl's live-in girlfriend.

At trial in federal court, the plaintiff, Violet's legal guardian, calls Phil to the stand. Phil is a physician who treated Violet for her injuries. The plaintiff seeks to have Phil testify that, during his treatment of Violet, he told her that in order to treat her injuries properly, he needed to know how she received her injuries and the length of time that her condition had existed. Phil will testify that Violet told him that Darryl had beaten her, and that the beatings had taken place fairly regularly for several months.

The testimony of Phil is: (A) Admissible only if Violet or her legal guardian has waived the physician-patient privilege.

(B) Admissible as a statement made to a doctor to treat a physical condition.

(C) Inadmissible, because the statement of Violet is not limited to a description of symptoms, but also includes a statement that Darryl caused her injuries.

(D) Inadmissible, unless Violet is too young to testify or is otherwise unavailable.

\section{Question 14}

Julio, a vintner, ordered two large stainless steel tanks from Metalworks, Inc. for use in his wine making business. A month after they were installed, the building in which they were housed burned to the ground. Julio brought suit against Metalworks, Inc., alleging that overheating of the tanks caused the fire. Metalworks's defense is that the fire was caused by Julio's failure to install modern electrical wiring in the rather old building.

At trial, Julio seeks to establish that the tanks overheated by testifying that, two weeks after the tanks were installed, a Metalworks, Inc. employee came to inspect the installation, and Julio said to him, "You know, sometimes these tanks get awful hot."

Should Julio be permitted to so testify?

(A) No, unless there has been no other evidence about overheating of the tanks presented by Julio.

(B) No, because Julio's testimony is inadmissible hearsay.

(C) Yes, because Julio's testimony is evidence of a fact in issue.

(D) Yes, because Julio's testimony is evidence of a verbal act. 

\section{EVIDENCE}

\section{Question 15}

After a major merger and corporate reorganization, Gray, who had been an employee of Macho Corporation for 25 years and its public relations director for 10 years, was fired. The excuse given him was that the reorganization and merger required a trimming of personnel to make the corporation "lean and mean." Shortly after Gray's dismissal, Frogman, a member of the board of directors of Macho, who had always liked Gray and admired his competent work, told Gray, "I think what happened to you was rotten, and I want you to know I voted against it, but Cobb, as chairman of the board, took most of the directors with him when he made a point at the reorganization meeting to say, 'Now's our chance to get rid of old Gray, who just doesn't fit our corporate image of youthful vigor."' Gray, who was 60 years old, filed an age discrimination suit against Macho. It was typical practice that all directors' meetings be tape recorded, and that the corporate secretary use the tape recording to type up a formal transcript of the proceedings. The meeting at which Gray's dismissal was discussed was no exception. At the trial of Gray's case, Gray wishes to have Frogman testify as to Cobb's statement at the board meeting.

If the defense objects, the court should rule that such testimony is:
(A) Admissible, because it is based on Frogman's firsthand knowledge.
(B) Inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any recognized exception to the hearsay rule.
(C) Inadmissible, because the audiotape of the directors' meeting is the best evidence.
(D) Inadmissible, because the corporate secre- tary's transcription of the directors' meet- ing is the best evidence.

\section{Question 16}

At a products liability trial, one of the most critical issues is whether the temperature was below freezing on January 16. Akiro does drafting work at an architectural and civil engineering firm, but Akiro is also an avid amateur meteorologist. The backyard of Akiro's home is rigged with many weather detection instruments that track wind, temperature, humidity, barometric pressure, and precipitation. One of Akiro's instruments records temperature by markings from a stylus on a round barograph. Akiro's record of the day in question indicates that it was unseasonably warm and that the temperature never fell lower than 48 degrees Fahrenheit, 16 degrees above the freezing mark. The plaintiff offers into evidence Akiro's barograph record of the temperature on January 16.

The barograph record is:
(A) Admissible, as past recollection recorded.
(B) Admissible, as a record of regularly con- ducted activity.
(C) Inadmissible, unless foundation testimony is given as to the accuracy and good work- ing order of Akiro's instrument on the day in question.
(D) Inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any recognized exception to the hearsay rule. 

\section{Question 17}

Don's car struck Phaedra, a pedestrian, at a busy intersection. Bob was a bystander at the scene of the accident. As soon as Phaedra was hit Bob blurted out, "My God, she was crossing on the green light!" Wilma was standing next to Bob at the time. She did not see the accident because she was facing the other direction, but she clearly heard Bob's exclamation.

That night Bob was talking to his friend Walter. He told Walter, "You know that accident I saw this afternoon? The driver didn't run a red light. The light was yellow."

Phaedra sued Don for her injuries. By the time the case came to trial, Bob had died of a heart attack. Phaedra called Wilma to the stand to testify as to Bob's statement that Phaedra was crossing on a green light. Although Don objected, Wilma's testimony was admitted as an excited utterance. Don now wishes to call Walter to the stand to testify as to Bob's statement that Don did not run a red light. Phaedra objects. Should Walter's testimony be admitted?
(A) Yes, but only to challenge the credibility of Bob's earlier inconsistent statement.
(B) Yes, both for impeachment purposes and as substantive evidence.
(C) No, because Bob is not available to explain or deny the statement.
(D) No, because it is hearsay, not within any recognized exception to the hearsay rule. 

$$
\text { . }
$$





$$
\begin{aligned}
& \text { +1. } 
\end{aligned}
$$



\section{Real Property}

\section{Question 1}

Orville conveyed Redacre "to my best friend, Nelson, and upon Nelson's death to my daughter, Dora." Nelson took up possession of Redacre and lived there for two years. He then conveyed "my interest in Redacre" to his longtime, and much younger, mistress, Magnolia. Although Dora was fond of her father's friend, Nelson, she could not abide Magnolia, and the thought of Magnolia taking over Redacre made Dora sick. Dora tried to get Magnolia to leave Redacre, but Magnolia told Dora, "Redacre is mine until I die, and you'd better get used to that idea." Since Magnolia took up residence on Redacre, she has been sent two county property tax bills, which she has refused to pay. The county is now threatening to bring an action to force a judicial sale of Redacre to cover the tax deficiency. Dora files an appropriate suit asking the court to evict Magnolia from Redacre and to compel her to pay the taxes for her period of occupancy.

The court will rule that:

(A) Magnolia has a life estate in Redacre for the period of her own life, and Magnolia must pay the taxes on the property.

(B) Magnolia has a life estate in Redacre for the period of Nelson's life, and Magnolia must pay the taxes on the property.

(C) Magnolia has a life estate in Redacre for the period of Nelson's life, but Magnolia does not have to pay the taxes on the property, because taxes are the responsibility of the remainder grantee.

(D) Dora owns Redacre, because Nelson could not convey his interest to Magnolia.

\section{Question 2}

Hiram owned a residence on a large parcel of land that included a tennis court and a private golf course. He wanted to be sure that members of his family would continue to enjoy the recreational facilities and have a "family home" at which all the relatives could gather, so he provided in his will that the property would pass upon his death "to Horace, my son, for life, then to my eldest grandchild living at Horace's death, for life, remainder to my great-grandchildren, share and share alike."

When Hiram died, he was survived by his wife, his son Horace, Horace's children Candace and Suzanne, Hiram's daughter Elvira, and Elvira's children Leon and Emily. Candace was the eldest of the grandchildren, followed in age by Leon, Suzanne, and Emily. After Hiram's death, Horace had another child, Chester, and Elvira had two more children, John and Nancy, born in respective order. When Horace died many years later, Candace and Leon had predeceased him, and seven great-grandchildren (of Hiram) had been born.

At Horace's death, in whom is title to the property vested?
(A) Hiram's heirs.
(B) Candace, Suzanne, Leon, and Emily.
(C) Suzanne for life, remainder to the great- grandchildren.
(D) Suzanne for life, remainder to Hiram's heirs. 

\section{REAL PROPERTY}

\section{Question 3}

Powell owned a parcel of land in the mountains near Redwoods National Forest that had been improved by the construction of a permanent campground, consisting of wooden floors and frames for tents, a wooden mess hall with kitchen, and wooden outhouses. Each year he allowed the Boy Scouts to use the parcel, Camp Whachacallit, for their annual summer camp. The rest of the year Powell and his family and friends used the parcel for camping and other recreation.

Powell's will devised the parcel as follows: "Camp Whachacallit to my nephew Ronald, his heirs and assigns, so long as it is used for camping and recreational purposes, otherwise to the National Council of the Boy Scouts of America."

Powell died in 1996. The residuary clause of his will left all his property not devised in the remainder of the will to his daughter Erma, who was also his sole heir. Erma died intestate in 2002 , her only heir being her son Harold.

The jurisdiction's decisional law follows the common law Rule Against Perpetuities, and a statute provides that future estates and interests are alienable, and may be devised or inherited, all in the same manner as possessory estates or interests.

In 2003 , which of the following best describes the interests of Harold and the National Council of the Boy Scouts of America in Camp Whachacallit?

(A) Harold has a possibility of reverter and the Boy Scouts' Council has an executory interest.

(B) Harold has an executory interest and the Boy Scouts' Council has nothing.

(C) Harold has a possibility of reverter and the Boys Scouts' Council has a contingent remainder.

(D) Harold has a possibility of reverter and the Boy Scouts' Council has nothing.

\section{Question 4}

All the land and buildings comprising Miller's Mall, a small shopping center, were owned by Miller, who leased out various stores in the mall. Dwight obtained a two-year lease from Miller on one of the stores. Dwight then opened a gift and greeting card shop which he named "Happy Times Cards and Gifts." Dwight's business was quite successful, and he was making good profits from the store's operation when he underwent a religious conversion and decided that the true meaning of life was not to be found in the quest for material success. Dwight spoke with his friend, Ariel, who was anxious to go into business for herself. Ariel wished to buy Dwight's business and inventory, and Dwight wished to assign his lease on the store in Miller's Mall to Ariel. The lease still had 14 months left to run. Dwight told Miller that he wanted to assign his lease to Ariel, who would run the same kind of business. Miller took out his copy of the lease and pointed out a clause requiring consent to any assignment and providing that any attempted assignment without consent is grounds for terminating the lease. Miller refused to consent to the assignment. Dwight assigned the lease to Ariel anyway; then he went off to meditate under the direction of a famed guru who operated an ashram high in the Himalayas. Ariel operated the card store in the same manner as Dwight, the only difference being a change of the store's name to "Happier Days Cards and Gifts."

Has Miller any recourse against Dwight or Ariel?

(A) Yes, he may evict Ariel and collect damages from Dwight because nonassignment clauses are valid and enforceable.

(B) No, the nonassignment clause is invalid in this case because Miller has a duty to mitigate damages.

(C) No, because Ariel is operating the same type of business as Dwight, and Miller has suffered no damages resulting from the assignment.

(D) No, because nonassignment clauses are invalid restraints upon alienation. 

\section{Question 5}

Dan, an experienced trial lawyer, traveled from his hometown, Secondville, to Capitol City, where he was hired to complete a complex antitrust case that Dan estimated would take weeks, and possibly months, to complete. During his sojourn in Capitol City, which began on a Sunday, Dan stayed at the Capitol City Ryott Hotel. The normal room charges were \$ 150$ per night. Dan made a deal with the hotel management to pay \$ 700$ per week for his room for an indefinite period. Dan never told the hotel management exactly how long he planned to stay, but each Sunday he would present the cashier with a check for \$ 700$, plus any additional taxes and room charges, to pay for the previous week's lodging. Dan was not asked to pay in this manner, but he did it as a matter of custom. Dan did this for four weeks, and then the opposing party suddenly made a generous settlement offer which Dan's client agreed to accept. On a Thursday morning, before checkout time for that day, Dan tendered the hotel cashier a check for \$ 400$ plus additional charges incurred from Sunday through Wednesday nights. The cashier promptly took the check and then told Dan, "You owe us \$ 1,000$ plus taxes for 10 more days' lodging. We expect you to pay for the rest of this week as you customarily do, and then for an additional week because you didn't give us a week's notice that you planned to vacate." Dan refused to pay the additional charges. If the hotel sues Dan and the court determines that the parties created a tenancy, for how many additional days' lodging will he be required to pay?
(A) None, because a tenancy at will was cre- ated.
(B) Three days, because a periodic tenancy was created.
(C) Seven days, because a periodic tenancy was created.
(D) Ten days, because a periodic tenancy was created. 

\section{REAL PROPERTY}

\section{Question 6}



The above chart indicates the configuration of three parcels of property located in State Blue, which has a 15-year prescription and adverse possession period. Seventeen years ago, Wallace purchased Woodlot, which is adjacent to Smoothacre and Roughacre. At the time Wallace purchased Woodlot, he asked Arnold, the owner of Smoothacre, if Arnold would grant Wallace an easement to use the paved way across Smoothacre to haul logs to the public road. Arnold was an affable person and he readily granted the easement to Wallace. Wallace paid nothing for the easement, and the deed granting the easement was properly recorded in the office of the county recorder of deeds. For six months Wallace hauled $\operatorname{logs}$ across Smoothacre. However, Wallace decided it would be easier to haul the logs over Roughacre, because the distance to the public road was less using that route. Wallace negotiated with Brenda, the owner of Roughacre, and Brenda granted Wallace a license to haul logs on the gravel road across Roughacre to the public road. Wallace paid Brenda a modest annual fee for this privilege. In the intervening time period, Wallace never used the paved way across Smoothacre for any purpose. Six months ago, Arnold conveyed Smoothacre to Cyd, and two weeks ago, Cyd had a chain-link fence built around the perimeter of Smoothacre which, of course, blocked Wallace's access to the paved way crossing Smoothacre. One week ago, acting within her rights, Brenda revoked Wallace's license to use the gravel road crossing Roughacre. The next day, Wallace told Cyd, "Open up that chainlink fence where Smoothacre abuts Woodlot, because I have an easement to haul my logs across your paved way." Cyd replied, "Forget it, Buster. I never agreed to any easement, and I don't want you hauling logs across my property." Wallace seeks advice about his rights in the easement across Smoothacre.

Which of the following best represents Wallace's rights under the circumstances?

(A) Wallace has no right to use the easement across Smoothacre, because Wallace abandoned the easement.

(B) Wallace may compel Cyd to allow him to use the easement, because nonuse of an easement does not constitute abandonment.

(C) Wallace may use the paved way across Smoothacre, because the revocation of his license to use the gravel road crossing Roughacre means that he has an easement by necessity to cross Smoothacre.

(D) Wallace has no right to use the easement across Smoothacre, because the easement reverted to the owners of Smoothacre by prescription. 

\section{Question 7}

When Uncle Izzy died, his will left Blackacre, a piece of property located in State Black, to his favorite nephew, Seymour, a resident of State White. Seymour never bothered to visit the property. Meanwhile, back in State Black, Michael noticed that Blackacre was now unoccupied. Not one to miss an opportunity, Michael leased Blackacre to Theresa. The lease was in writing and Theresa agreed to pay Michael an annual rent, which she always did promptly. Theresa had been leasing Blackacre from Michael for 15 years, when Seymour took a trip to State Black and decided to take a look at Blackacre. Upon discovering Theresa's occupancy, Seymour filed suit to quiet title, joining Michael in the action. In State Black, the statute of limitations for bringing an ejectment action for trespass to real property is set at 10 years.

Whom shall the court declare to be the owner of Blackacre?

(A) Seymour, because a lease to a third party does not constitute occupancy by Michael.

(B) Seymour, because he was unaware that another was occupying Blackacre.

(C) Michael, because Seymour abandoned Blackacre.

(D) Michael, because occupancy by a tenant is sufficient possession by Michael to invoke adverse possession.

\section{Question 8}

Homer owned Springfield, a valuable piece of property located near the state university. Homer's son, Bart, was a student at the university, and Homer allowed Bart and Bart's classmate, Newt, to live in the large house on the property rent free, in part because he felt that the studious Newt would be a good influence on the partyloving Bart. On Bart's 20th birthday, Homer handed Bart an instrument of conveyance signed by Homer. The deed included the following language: "I give Springfield to my dearly beloved son Bart on the condition precedent that he receive a college degree before he reaches the age of 30 , and if he does not receive the degree by his 30th birthday to my beloved daughter, Lisa." Bart promptly recorded the deed. Shortly thereafter, Bart asked Newt to start paying him rent. An argument evolved out of Bart's request and an angry Bart told Newt to get off his property. Newt refused to leave and Bart filed suit to evict Newt.

How will the court rule?

(A) Bart wins, because he has a fee simple subject to divestment.

(B) Bart loses, because Newt is Homer's tenant and not Bart's.

(C) Newt wins, because Bart is attempting a retaliatory eviction.

(D) Newt loses, because Homer's conveyance cuts off Newt's tenancy. 

\section{REAL PROPERTY}

\section{Question 9}

Owl contracted in writing to sell Birdacre to Partridge and Wren, as joint tenants, for \$ 60,000$. Partridge and Wren put up \$ 6,000$ as earnest money. Before the closing date, Owl died. Shortly thereafter, and also before the closing date, a garage on Birdacre burned down. The garage had a fair market value of \$ 6,500$ and was a complete loss. After the fire Partridge went to see Eagle, the executor of Owl's estate. Partridge demanded that Eagle return the \$ 6,000$, because Partridge and Wren were no longer interested in Birdacre. Eagle refused and told Partridge that he expected Partridge and Wren to tender the \$ 54,000$ due on the property when the closing date arrived. Partridge and Wren did not do so. Partridge filed suit demanding a refund of the \$ 6,000$. Eagle countersued, demanding specific performance by Partridge and Wren or, in the alternative, monetary damages.

How should the court rule?

(A) In favor of Eagle, by requiring specific performance of Partridge and Wren.

(B) In favor of Eagle, by assessing damages against Partridge and Wren.

(C) In favor of Partridge, by ordering Eagle to refund the earnest money.

(D) The court should rule that Eagle is not entitled to either damages or specific performance and that Partridge is not entitled to a refund of the earnest money.

\section{Question 10}

Oiler, an investment banker in Big City, began having cash flow problems. Seeing no other way out, he decided to sell Cattlefork, a distant ranch that had been in his family for generations, to his childhood nemesis, Astro. Not wanting to lose control of the family property forever, Oiler inserted a provision in the deed to Astro binding "Astro, his heirs, and assigns" to offer "Oiler, his heirs, and assigns" the right of first refusal to purchase Cattlefork when it was offered for sale. Astro was not happy with the provision, but Oiler refused to sell the property without the covenant included. Astro reluctantly agreed. Cattlefork was conveyed to Astro, and the deed containing the right of first refusal was duly recorded.

Astro lived on Cattlefork for 23 years. His dislike for Oiler was so great that he did not want Oiler to ever get the property back. Therefore, Astro devised a stratagem to get around the covenant. When informed that Cowboy was interested in buying the property, Astro decided to execute his plan. Astro's friend Ranger agreed to act as a "straw man" to avoid the consequences of the covenant. Astro deeded Cattlefork as a "gift" to Ranger. Ranger recorded the deed, which did not contain the right of first refusal covenant, and Ranger then sold the land to Cowboy for \$ 200,000$, giving the proceeds of the sale to Astro. Cowboy knew nothing about the right of first refusal because he inspected only Ranger's deed from Astro. When Oiler learned of what had happened, he filed suit to compel conveyance of the land to him. To back up his words, Oiler produced a \$ 200,000$ letter of credit. The jurisdiction in which the property is located has an unmodified common law Rule Against Perpetuities and the following recording statute:

Any conveyance of an interest in land, other than a lease for less than one year, shall not be valid against any subsequent purchaser for value, without notice, whose conveyance is first recorded.

How will the court most likely rule in this case?

(A) Oiler will prevail, because a deed with the covenant granting the right of first refusal was in Cowboy's chain of title.

(B) Oiler will prevail, because Astro and Ranger acted in bad faith.

(C) Oiler will not prevail, because the covenant is void under the Rule Against Perpetuities.

(D) Oiler will not prevail, because the covenant, although enforceable against Astro personally, does not run with the land. 

\section{Question 11}

Torrens owned Forestacre, a large tract of wooded land, in fee simple. He had always allowed hunters from the local hunting club to use his land during hunting seasons, and had often expressed the wish that they be permitted to continue to use it after he died. On his 75 th birthday, he conveyed Forestacre to his two nephews, Pelt and Dash, who were members of the local hunting club. The deed was a general warranty deed stating that the property was conveyed in fee simple absolute. A few days later, Dash had a serious dispute with Pelt and the other members of the hunting club, and he quit the club. Torrens then executed a written agreement with Pelt stating that the conveyance of Forestacre to Pelt and Dash was in trust for the benefit of the local hunting club for a period of ten years, with Pelt and Dash as trustees, and then to Pelt and Dash in fee simple. Several months later, Torrens died. When the next hunting season drew near, Pelt told Dash that members of the hunting club were once again planning to hunt on the property. Dash would not even consider it, and threatened to have anyone hunting on the property other than Pelt arrested for trespassing. Pelt did not wish to have any further confrontations with Dash, so he brought an action for appropriate legal or equitable relief to establish his rights and the rights of the hunting club.

What, if any, relief should the court provide?

(A) Deny Pelt any relief, because Dash has done nothing that would constitute an ouster of Pelt.

(B) Partition Forestacre into two separate tracts so that Pelt may permit the hunting club to use his half of Forestacre.

(C) Order Dash to permit the hunting club to hunt on Forestacre, because Torrens created an inter vivos trust with the requisite formalities for the benefit of the hunting club.

(D) Order Dash to permit the hunting club to hunt on Forestacre, because Pelt is equally entitled to possession of all of it and can allow members of the hunting club to hunt on the property as his guests. 

\section{REAL PROPERTY}

\section{Question 12}

State Green has a statute providing as follows:

Any judgment properly filed shall, for 10 years from the date of filing, be a lien on the real property then owned or subsequently acquired by any person against whom the judgment is rendered.

Oscar conveyed Birchacre, located in State Green, to Allen, who had had a judgment lien recorded against him two years earlier in the county in which Birchacre was located. One year later, Allen conveyed the property to Brenda by general warranty deed. The deed did not mention the lien, but Brenda was aware of it. Two years later, Brenda conveyed Birchacre to Carla by special warranty deed. Carla was not aware of the lien and her deed also made no mention of it. One year after that transaction, Carla conveyed Birchacre to Dave by general warranty deed. Dave's deed did not mention the lien but Dave was aware of it. The next year, Dave entered into a contract to convey Birchacre to Edgar. Edgar's title search disclosed the judgment lien against Allen, and Edgar refused to proceed with the transaction because title was not marketable. Dave brought an action against Edgar for specific performance and was denied relief. He then brought an action against Allen, Brenda, and Carla for breach of warranty. Assume for purposes of this question that all transactions concerning Birchacre were promptly and properly recorded, and that the party holding the judgment lien has taken no action as of yet to enforce it.

Which parties, if any, will be liable to Dave?

(A) No one, because Dave had actual knowledge of the lien when he purchased Birchacre.

(B) Carla only, because the party holding the judgment lien has taken no action as of yet to enforce it.

(C) Carla and Allen, because Brenda conveyed by special warranty deed.

(D) Brenda and Allen, because they were aware of the judgment lien but did not mention it in their deeds, but not Carla, because she was not aware of the lien. 

\section{Question 13}

Oralee owned Blackacre for many years. After she reached retirement age, Oralee sold the property to Amber, who financed the purchase with a note secured by a 20 -year mortgage with Maritime Bank. Amber promptly recorded her deed, and for 20 years Amber promptly made every payment to the bank. During that period of time, Amber financed the purchase of three automobiles with loans from Maritime Bank, and her record of payment was exemplary. Five years after Amber had paid off the mortgage, she revisited the mortgage loan department of Maritime Bank. She told the loan officer that she wanted to borrow \$ 30,000$ to help pay for the medical school education of a favorite niece, securing the loan with a mortgage on Blackacre. After confirming Amber's continuing employment status, the bank officer quickly approved the loan based upon Amber's excellent record with the bank. On June 3, Amber executed the note and the mortgage, and the bank gave Amber a certified check for \$ 30,000$, which she immediately deposited in her account at National Bank. On June 4, Amber sold Blackacre to Brittany for \$ 150,000$. Brittany, a wealthy actress and film director, paid Amber in cash. Brittany knew nothing about the mortgage. On June 5, Brittany recorded her deed to Blackacre. Two hours after Brittany recorded, Amber closed out her account at National Bank, which included the \$ 30,000$ from the mortgage. Amber, an only child who had never married, had no "favorite niece." By nightfall, Amber was on a flight to Tahiti with the proceeds of the aforementioned transactions, plus \$ 2$ million that she had secretly embezzled from her employer.

Brittany did have a favorite niece, an aspiring actress named Christie. On the evening of June 8 , which was a Saturday, Brittany presented Christie with a deed to Blackacre as a gift. At 10 a.m. on June 10, Maritime Bank recorded its mortgage. At 2 p.m. on June 10, Christie recorded her deed. After Amber missed her first mortgage payment on July 1, Maritime Bank employees were sent scurrying to the title office. They discovered the deeds to Brittany and Christie, and the facts surrounding Amber's hasty departure soon surfaced. Maritime Bank demanded that Christie satisfy the \$ 30,000$ mortgage. Brittany provided Christie with an attorney, who filed an appropriate suit to determine the various interests in Blackacre. The recording statute in the jurisdiction reads, in relevant part:

A conveyance of an estate in land shall not be valid against any subsequent purchaser for value, without notice thereof, unless the conveyance is recorded.

The court should rule that:

(A) Christie owns Blackacre subject to Maritime Bank's mortgage, because Christie is a donee.

(B) Christie owns Blackacre subject to Maritime Bank's mortgage, because Maritime Bank recorded before Christie.

(C) Christie owns Blackacre free of Maritime Bank's mortgage, because Brittany was a bona fide purchaser for value without notice.

(D) Christie owns Blackacre free of Maritime Bank's mortgage, because the bank does not qualify as a bona fide purchaser for value. 

\section{REAL PROPERTY}

\section{Question 14}

Owen owned Copperacre, a large tract of mineral-rich land in a sparsely populated area. He entered into a lease with Yukon, a prospector who was interested in developing the land for mining. The term of the lease was two years and gave Yukon an option to buy the property at any time after the first year. Yukon did not record the lease. Six months later, Yukon left Copperacre for a period of time to prospect in Mexico, leaving no goods on the land that would identify him. Owen then conveyed Copperacre in fee simple to Darlene, who had inspected the property while Yukon was in Mexico and was unaware of the prior transaction. Darlene did not immediately record her deed. After three months in Mexico, Yukon returned to Copperacre and encountered Darlene.

A statute in the jurisdiction provides, in part:

No conveyance or mortgage of an interest in land, other than a lease for less than one year, is valid against any subsequent purchaser for value without notice thereof whose conveyance is first recorded.

If Darlene brings an action to quiet title to Copperacre, how should the court rule?

(A) Darlene takes title subject to Yukon's leasehold interest and his option to purchase because Yukon acquired his interest first.

(B) Darlene takes title subject to Yukon's leasehold interest but not his option to purchase because he does not yet have the power to exercise the option. (C) Darlene takes title subject to Yukon's leasehold interest and option to purchase regardless of whether she now records, because she will have had notice of Yukon's interest before recording.

(D) Darlene takes title free of Yukon's leasehold interest and option because Yukon failed to record before Darlene purchased the property without notice of his interest.

\section{Question 15}

When Burt purchased Sweetacre, he financed the purchase through a mortgage on the property held by First Bank. The mortgage contained a "due-on-sale clause," requiring the mortgagor to pay off the mortgage at the time the property is sold. Burt made all of his mortgage payments in a timely manner. Five years after Burt purchased Sweetacre, he sold the property to Tully. Burt told Tully that there was a mortgage on the property but he did not mention the due-on-sale clause. Tully paid Burt the asking price for Sweetacre. Burt pocketed the proceeds without paying off the First Bank mortgage.

Which of the following best states the effect of the due-on-sale clause on Tully's interest in Sweetacre?
(A) First Bank can foreclose on Sweetacre.
(B) Tully must agree to assume the First Bank Mortgage on Sweetacre.
(C) The only effect of the clause is that Tully is personally liable on the mortgage.
(D) The clause has no effect, because due-on- sale clauses are generally void as contrary to public policy. 

\section{Question 16}

When Able purchased Blueacre from Oswald, he took out a \$ 160,000$ mortgage on Blueacre. After being in possession of Blueacre for six months, Able concluded that his cash-flow situation would make it difficult for him to continue to make the high monthly mortgage payments. Therefore, he sold Blueacre to Brett. According to the terms of the agreement signed by the parties, Brett took Blueacre "subject to the mortgage" and agreed to "assume payment of' the mortgage. A recession struck the area, and Brett soon found himself in financial difficulties. Brett sold Blueacre to Carly. Under the terms of the agreement signed by the parties, Carly agreed to take "subject to the mortgage." All deeds and the mortgage were properly recorded. After two months on the land, Carly ceased making mortgage payments. Third National Bank ("TNB"), holder of the mortgage, unsuccessfully demanded payments from Carly, Brett, and Able. TNB properly instituted proceedings to foreclose, and Blueacre was put up for judicial sale. Because the recession had severely depressed property values, Blueacre sold for only \$ 120,000$. After the \$ 120,000$ was applied to the mortgage, \$ 37,800$ was still owing on the principal amount. TNB now seeks judgment to cover the \$ 37,800$ deficiency. Who can be required to pay the deficiency?
(A) Able only.
(B) Able and Brett.
(C) Brett and Carly.
(D) Able, Brett, and Carly. 

\section{REAL PROPERTY}

\section{Question 17}

Augustus received an "inside tip" from his friend Drusus, a real estate developer. Acting on the tip, Augustus purchased several acres of scrub-covered land of little apparent value. Shortly thereafter, Whizny World, an international conglomerate, announced plans to develop a theme park to be called "Romeland" on a tract immediately adjacent to Augustus's scrubland. The Whizny World plan caused real estate values in the surrounding area to skyrocket.

Augustus could have sold his land for a price many times greater than the purchase price, but Augustus decided that he would use the land to build a variety of tourist-oriented facilities. In order to finance his project, Augustus went to Brutus Bank ("Brubank") and took out a \$ 20,000$ mortgage on his land. Brubank promptly recorded the mortgage. A few days later, Augustus went to Cassius Bank ("Casbank") and took out a \$ 15,000$ mortgage on the land. Casbank had known of the Brubank mortgage, and Casbank promptly recorded its own mortgage. A few weeks after that, Augustus reviewed his plans and decided that he needed more money to make his proposed tourist facilities more "upscale." Augustus went back to Brubank and, after full disclosure of the Casbank mortgage, asked the loan officer if he could receive another advance of \$ 15,000$ from the original Brubank mortgage. The loan officer readily agreed, processed the loan, and increased the amount borrowed against the mortgage from \$ 20,000$ to \$ 35,000$. Brubank promptly recorded the change. Augustus quickly spent most of his available funds on retainers for architects, builders, and attorneys. He was shocked to read in the paper that the County Council summarily rejected the Whizny World proposal, acceding to the arguments of community activists and environmentalists that the economic benefits from the theme park would be outweighed by the deleterious effects on the natural beauty and tranquility of the area. Augustus made no more mortgage payments to Casbank, but continued to make payments to Brubank. The value of the land plummeted, and Casbank brought a foreclosure action against Augustus and included Brubank as a party. At the foreclosure sale, the proceeds were a mere \$ 18,000$ after attorneys' fees and court costs.

How should the proceeds be divided?
(A) \$ 18,000$ to Brubank and nothing to Casbank.
(B) \$ 9,000$ to Brubank and \$ 9,000$ to Casbank.
(C) \$ 3,000$ to Brubank and \$ 15,000$ to Casbank.
(D) Nothing to Brubank, \$ 15,000$ to Casbank, and \$ 3,000$ to Augustus. 

\section{bedori}

BAR REVIEW

\section{1} (A) (B) (C) (D)

\section{2} (A) (B) (C) (D)

\section{3} (A) (B) (C) (D)

\section{4} (A) (B) (C) (D)

\section{5} (A) (B) (C) (D)

\section{6} (A) (B) (C) (D)

\section{7} (A) (B) (C) (D)

\section{8} (A) (B) (C) (D)

\section{9} (A) (B) (C) (D)

\section{10} (A) (B) (C) (D)

\section{11} (A) (B) (C) (D)

\section{12} (A) (B) (C) (D)

\section{13} (A) (B) (C) (D)

\section{14} (A) (B) (C) (D)

\section{15} (A) (B) (C) (D)

\section{16} (A) (B) (C) (D)

\section{17} (A) (B) (C) (D) 





\section{Torts}

\section{Question 1}

Dietz had recently been released from a mental institution, and was living in a halfway house in Kirbyville. Dietz had a long history of mental illness and had been in and out of institutions since he was an adolescent. Although Dietz would improve for a while, he was subject to recurrent hallucinations and delusions involving a belief that people, animals, and alien beings from another planet were about to attack him. Pansy was peacefully walking along a quiet residential street in Kirbyville. It happened to be the same street as that along which Dietz was walking. Pansy noticed that a person was walking up the street on the sidewalk towards her, but she did not know Dietz. When Dietz saw Pansy approaching him, he pulled a softdrink bottle from his shopping bag and hurled it at Pansy, striking her in the head and causing her injury. Afterwards Pansy filed a civil battery action against Dietz.

Which of the following, if true, provides the best defense for Dietz?

(A) Dietz had no desire to harm Pansy.

(B) Because of his mental illness, Dietz did not understand that his act was wrongful.

(C) Dietz did not know he was striking a person.

(D) Dietz thought Pansy was about to attack him.

\section{Question 2}

Donnalou was the office cut-up and general practical jokester. She decided to pull a prank on Paul, a rather dour and staid co-worker. Knowing where Paul, a creature of habit, always kept his lunch box, she put a small quantity of mescaline, a synthetic hallucinogen, in Paul's thermos bottle of cranberry juice. She expected that strait-laced Paul would have a minor vision or two and act in a goofy and comical manner. However, when Paul drank his mescaline-laced juice at lunchtime he had a severe reaction to the mescaline and experienced wild hallucinations. Donnalou promptly drove Paul to the emergency room of nearby Hacksaw Hospital. Paul was put under observation for a couple of hours. The emergency room physician, Pillpush, was very busy and negligently released Paul prematurely. The next day, while driving, Paul had another powerful hallucination and drove his car into a bridge abutment. Paul suffered contusions, abrasions, a concussion, and several broken bones. After Paul recovered he sued Donnalou for his injuries.

Who will prevail?

(A) Donnalou, because the auto accident would not have occurred but for the negligence of Dr. Pillpush.

(B) Donnalou, because Donnalou did not intend to harm Paul.

(C) Paul, unless the automobile accident could not have reasonably been foreseen.

(D) Paul, because Donnalou intended that Paul should ingest the mescaline. 

\section{TORTS}

\section{Question 3}

Steve gave his brother-in-law, Randy, permission to use his boat for a few hours of fishing on the local lake. Randy took the boat out on the lake for a while and then decided to cruise through a system of inland waterways to a larger chain of lakes. The fishing was so good that Randy stayed overnight there and fished most of the next day. On his way back, the boat was struck and seriously damaged by a large tree that fell from the bank without warning. Randy managed to bring the boat back to his house. Just as he got in, Steve called, demanding to know why Randy had not brought it back when he was supposed to. Randy promised that he would bring it back as soon as he could, but Steve replied that he was coming over right now to pick it up. Randy did not want to be around when Steve saw the damage to the boat, so he went out to the store. It was dark when Steve arrived, and he accidently ran over a corner of Randy's garden when he backed his truck up to the boat trailer. When he saw the damage to the boat, however, he left it there and went home.

Assuming that the boat was worth \$ 18,000$ before it was damaged and sustained \$ 9,000$ worth of damage, what is the most that Steve will be entitled to recover in an action against Randy?
(A) \$9,000 and damages for loss of use.
(B) \$ 9,000$ and damages for loss of use, offset by the damage to Randy's garden.
(C) \$ 18,000$ plus interest.
(D) \$ 18,000$ plus interest, offset by the damage to Randy's garden.

\section{Question 4}

Mommy's young son, Boy, accidentally swallowed a coin while playing. Boy had to be rushed to the hospital, and although Boy recovered, Mommy has suffered feelings of anxiety, worrying that her child might be injured again. Mommy's husband, Hal, talked Mommy into going to a movie to have a relaxing evening out. She agreed after her mother agreed to watch Boy for the evening. Mommy was enjoying the movie when Hal left his seat to get some popcorn from the concession stand. Hal ordered a large popcorn with extra butter. While handling change, Dizzie, the concession stand attendant, carelessly dropped a quarter into Hal's popcorn. After taking a couple of handfuls for himself, Hal returned to his seat and gave the popcorn box to Mommy. Mommy began to eat the popcorn. However, as she began to munch her third handful of popcorn, she bit the quarter that Dizzie had dropped into the box. Mommy did not swallow the quarter, nor did she bite on it hard enough to injure her teeth or gums, but the feel of the coin brought back all her anxieties about Boy's injury. That night Mommy could not sleep, and the few times that she did nod off for a second, a horrible nightmare recalling her son's injury because of the coin would occur.

If Mommy sues the movie theater for her emotional distress, she will:

(A) Win, because Dizzie was negligent.

(B) Win, because Mommy suffered emotional distress.

(C) Lose, unless a reasonable person would have suffered similar distress after finding a coin in the popcorn and biting on it.

(D) Lose, because Mommy suffered no actionable harm. 

\section{Question 5}

Publectric Company, a utility supplying gas and electricity to West Howard, was working on some of its underground lines. Access to the underground lines was through a utility hole, which Publectric had left uncovered. Publectric installed a modern guardrail around the hole to prevent members of the public from falling into the hole. Although the rail completely surrounded the utility hole, there was an opening in one part of the railing which made it easier to pass down tools to those working below.

Hound, a dog fancier, lived in a single-family home across the street from where the Publectric utility hole was located. Hound owned "Hobson's Hotspur of Trent,"' a champion springer spaniel whom Hound exhibited at dog shows. The dog was also a family pet and was known affectionately to Hound's family as "Hobby." Hound's home had a large front lawn where Hound often walked Hobby without first leashing him. One such afternoon, Hobby saw a squirrel and suddenly bolted away from Hound's lawn. Hobby dashed across the street, passed through the opening of the guardrail, and fell into the utility hole, suffering broken bones and internal injuries. Although expensive and lengthy care by veterinary specialists saved Hobby's life, the dog was no longer of "show quality" after the injuries.

Assume that the jurisdiction in which West Howard is located still recognizes all the common law defenses to tort liability. Can Hound recover his economic losses resulting from the injuries to Hobby in a suit against Publectric?

(A) No, unless Publectric failed to exercise reasonable care in making the dangerous condition safe.

(B) No, if the guardrail used by Publectric meets typical industry standards.

(C) No, because the dog escaped from Hound's yard. (D) No, unless a reasonably careful person would have been injured in the same manner.

\section{Question 6}

Martha brought her nine-year-old son, Norton, along with her on a trip to the Modern Mall shopping center. Modern Mall was, as its name describes, a modern mall development containing many different stores. The mall was entirely enclosed to provide protection from the elements. Martha had spent about half an hour at the mall without purchasing anything. In fact, her main purpose for going to the mall was "window shopping," a pastime that Martha found extremely enjoyable. At that time Norton told Martha that he needed to use the restroom and that he was going to the nearest men's room. Martha agreed to wait for him in front of Lacy's Lingerie Boutique. Norton entered the men's room. He was followed by Barry, a convicted child molester released on parole. Barry cornered Norton in the men's room and sexually molested him. Barry then quickly left the mall and has not yet been apprehended. Martha later filed suit against Modern Mall Management Associates ("MMMA"), the owner of the mall, on Norton's behalf for the injuries suffered by him.

Is MMMA likely to be found liable to Norton?

(A) Yes, because MMMA owes a strict duty to its customers.

(B) Yes, if MMMA had reason to know of the danger to Norton.

(C) No, because a criminal act is a superseding force.

(D) No, because Norton was not an invitee of MMMA. 

\section{TORTS}

\section{Question 7}

Penquist was exiting from a parking garage owned and operated by the city of Durham when he discovered that the exit ramp was blocked by construction barricades and a pile of broken-up concrete. No workers or detour signs were around and Penquist was in a hurry, so he backed up and drove down an entrance ramp that was clearly marked as such. As he came around a corner, his car was broadsided by a pickup truck driven by Totten. Penquist was seriously injured in the collision. A statute in the jurisdiction requires drivers to obey all traffic directional markings in both public and private parking lots and garages. The jurisdiction retains traditional contributory negligence rules and retains governmental immunity for municipalities.

If Penquist brings a lawsuit against the city to recover for his injuries, which of the following facts will be least helpful in the city's defense?

(A) Penquist was aware that another exit on the other side of the garage was open.

(B) The construction workers responsible for blocking off the exit ramp were employees of an independent contractor rather than the city.

(C) The city does not collect fees or make a profit in the operation of the garage.

(D) Totten could have avoided Penquist but recognized him as an old enemy and deliberately ran into him.

\section{Question 8}

State Green had a law on its statute books that made any teacher, guardian, therapist, school administrator, or any other person standing in loco parentis subject to the same rights and duties as actual parents. In effect this meant that persons standing in loco parentis could be charged with liability in cases where a parent would have been liable and granted immunity from liability where such would have been the case for a parent. Dr. Zarkov had a Ph.D. in child psychology and was the director of the Verdant Institute, a residential home for disturbed minors located in Verdant City, the largest city in State Green. The Verdant Institute had no fence surrounding its premises, but regular bedchecks were conducted each night to determine that all of the disturbed children were present. A bedcheck determined that Ming, a 12-year-old resident of the Institute, was absent. In fact, Ming had climbed out a window and run away about 15 minutes before the bedcheck. The security guard who conducted the bedcheck immediately reported to Zarkov that Ming was missing. Zarkov did not report Ming's absence to the police or any other authority. Thirty-six hours after Ming ran away from the Institute, Ming savagely beat and severely injured six-year-old Gordon, a child who lived a few blocks away from the Verdant Institute. Although Gordon recovered, physicians indicated that the beating might well cause Gordon to suffer permanent hearing and vision deficiencies. Gordon's parents filed suit against Zarkov on Gordon's behalf.

Which party is likely to prevail in the lawsuit?

(A) Gordon, unless a 12-year-old would not be liable for administering the beating.

(B) Gordon, because Zarkov assumed the role of a parent and liability is, therefore, imposed under the in loco parentis statute.

(C) Zarkov, because he cannot be found vicariously liable for Ming's acts inasmuch as parents are not vicariously liable for the intentional torts of their children.

(D) Zarkov, unless Zarkov had reason to know that Ming had a propensity to commit violent acts. 

\section{Question 9}

After several years in the planning, Jason was ready to begin building his dream house. To save money, he decided to act as the general contractor and hire all of the subcontractors himself. He hired separate contractors for the foundation, the frame, the electricity, the plumbing, and the masonry. After several months of work, the house was finally ready for occupancy. The first night that Jason stayed there, however, a fire swept through the house. Jason managed to escape with a broken ankle and some minor burns, but the house was a total loss. An investigation by the fire marshal established that the fire started from a short in some wiring behind a wall. A small section of wiring that ran to an outlet through a narrow gap between a furnace chimney and a hot water pipe had had part of its outer sheath cut off. Both the chimney and the pipe had been installed, and the walls put up, after the rough wiring had been completed.

Jason filed suit against Shortstop Electrical Service, the contractor that did the rough wiring. The parties stipulated that Shortstop had installed the wiring in compliance with the detailed blueprints that Jason had drawn up, and that the wiring had been inspected and approved by the building inspector shortly after it had been installed. At trial, Jason introduced the report of the fire marshal establishing the above facts and evidence of his medical expenses and other damages. At the end of Jason's case, Shortstop's attorney rested her case and moved for a directed verdict. Jason's attorney also moved for a directed verdict. How should the court rule on the directed verdict motions?

(A) Deny both directed verdict motions, because Jason has presented enough evidence to submit the case to the jury.

(B) Deny Shortstop's motion and grant Jason's motion for a directed verdict, because Shortstop failed to rebut the presumption of negligence that Jason has established.

(C) Deny Jason's motion and grant Shortstop's motion for a directed verdict, because the wire could have been damaged by another contractor.

(D) Deny Shortstop's motion and grant Jason's motion for a directed verdict, because a short in the wiring caused Jason's injuries. 

\section{TORTS}



\section{Questions 10-11} are based on the following fact situation:

Paul was admitted to Doctors' Hospital to undergo $\mathrm{x}$-rays and a series of other tests. During the course of the $\mathrm{x}$-rays, Paul was strapped to an $\mathrm{x}$-ray table manufactured by Hospital Suppliers. One feature of the table allowed the table to be tilted into an upright position, so that the patient could be $\mathrm{x}$-rayed while in a vertical position. There was a footrest at the bottom of the table that helped support the patient when the table was in a vertical position. During the course of Paul's $x$-ray procedure, the table was tilted into an upright position. As the technician began to take x-rays of Paul, the footrest fell off the $\mathrm{x}$-ray table. Had Paul been securely strapped in, he would have remained on the table. However, the loss of the footrest caused sufficient additional pressure on the straps that they loosened, and Paul fell from the table onto the floor. Paul's head struck the floor, and delicate brain surgery was required to save Paul's life. Although Paul recovered, he has suffered some permanent disabilities as a result of his fall.


\section{10} If Paul sues Hospital Suppliers on a theory of strict liability for his injuries, who will prevail?

(A) Paul, if the x-ray table was defective.

(B) Paul, if Hospital Suppliers could have installed a safety latch that would have prevented the footrest from falling without incurring unreasonable additional cost or unreasonably impairing the usefulness of the table.

(C) Hospital Suppliers, if a hospital employee was negligent when he strapped Paul in.



\section{ Hospital Suppliers, because the table was not in the exclusive control of Hospital Suppliers when Paul incurred his injury} If Paul sues Doctors' Hospital for his injuries:

(A) Paul will win, if a hospital employee failed to use reasonable care in strapping Paul to the table.

(B) Doctors' Hospital will win, unless the defective footrest could have been discovered through reasonable inspection.

(C) Paul will lose, unless he can cite a specific hospital employee as having been negligent.

(D) Doctors' Hospital will lose, unless the injury to Paul was caused by a defect that was present in the x-ray table at its time of purchase. 

\section{Question 12}

Sandra had 30,000 miles on her car when she purchased four new "Huggums" tires from Mac's Tire and Muffler Shop. The "Huggums" tires were manufactured by Kimbo Tire and Rubber Company, a reputable tire manufacturer. It was widely known in the tire industry that purchasers of tires would, on occasion, exceed posted speed limits, and therefore tires were designed to perform at speeds higher than the maximum speed of 65 m.p.h. allowable in most states. Sandra was a safe and careful driver who never exceeded the speed limit.

When Sandra's car had 32,000 miles on it, she sold the car to Pedro. Pedro immediately took the car on a 500-mile trip to visit his sister. During the course of the journey, Pedro often drove his car 10 m.p.h. over the posted limit of 65 m.p.h. As Pedro approached his destination, he was driving 73 m.p.h. on smooth pavement. Suddenly his left front tire blew out for no apparent reason. The car went out of control, crashed into another vehicle, and Pedro was severely injured.

If Pedro sues Mac's for his injuries in a jurisdiction retaining traditional contributory negligence rules, Pedro should:

(A) Recover, because the tire blew out for no apparent reason.

(B) Recover, if the tire was defective when it left Kimbo's manufacturing plant.

(C) Not recover, if Mac's had no reason to know or anticipate that there would be any defects in "Huggums" tires.

(D) Not recover, because Pedro was contributorily negligent in exceeding the speed limit.

\section{Question 13}

Ten years ago Gasmask Chemicals, a leading chemical manufacturer, decided that it needed a safe place to store byproduct waste from its manufacturing processes. Many of these byproducts were highly toxic; thus, Gasmask took great care in selecting a dump site. A highly reputable engineering company was hired and an exhaustive survey was performed. Finally the Temblor Canyon site was selected and the chemicals were stored there underground, using state-of-the-art techniques. Although the survey and attendant geological soundings were performed with consummate skill, the surveyors failed to discover a crack in the rock of the storage area that was too small for their instruments to detect. Over a period of years the chemicals began to seep through the crack and into the water table below the surface. Scientists in nearby Canyon City discovered that the city's water supply, all of which came from local wells that tapped into the water table, contained unacceptably high levels of chemical contaminants. Canyon City was required to spend \$ 5$ million on a complex filtration system to remove the dangerous chemicals from its water.

Canyon City brought an action against Gasmask to recover the cost of building the filtration system. At the end of plaintiff's case establishing the above facts, Gasmask moved for a directed verdict.

Should the court grant Gasmask's motion?

(A) Yes, because Canyon City has not presented any evidence that Gasmask breached a duty owed to the city.

(B) Yes, if the evidence also established that Canyon City's water wells were drilled after Gasmask stored the chemicals.

(C) No, if the court determines as a matter of law that the chemicals could not be stored without risk of serious harm no matter how much care Gasmask took.

(D) No, because the trier of fact could determine that the chemicals could not be stored without risk of serious harm no matter how much care Gasmask took. 

\section{TORTS}

\section{Question 14}

Neither the legislature nor the courts of State Yellow have abolished the common law tort defenses of contributory negligence and assumption of the risk. However, the State Yellow legislature decided it was time to take steps against all forms of drug abuse and passed the Omnibus Anti-Drug Act ("OADA"). One of the OADA provisions forbade the selling of airplane glue to anyone under the age of 18 except in small quantities in prepackaged model kits. Violation of the statute was penalized by fines or, in cases of multiple violations, possible imprisonment. OADA also required that all elementary and secondary schools licensed by the state provide comprehensive drug education programs.

Primrose was a 14-year-old resident of State Yellow. Primrose had experienced the drug education program in his school, as mandated by OADA. One of the units in the program covered the dangers of glue sniffing. Primrose understood the anti-drug instruction, but he enjoyed the "high" he got from sniffing glue when he constructed model airplanes, and he wanted to experience more of it. He went to Daffodil's Hobby \& Craft Shop to purchase a large tube of airplane glue. Daffodil, sole proprietor of the hobby shop, sold the large tube of glue to Primrose. Primrose went home, hid in the garage, and sniffed the glue. His parents found Primrose in a coma on the garage floor. Although Primrose will survive, physicians have told his parents that he suffered permanent brain damage from sniffing the glue.

On Primrose's behalf, the parents filed suit against Daffodil, which should result in a verdict: (A) For Daffodil, because Primrose was aware of the danger when he sniffed the glue.

(B) For Daffodil, because Primrose is not a member of the class of persons meant to be protected by OADA.

(C) For Primrose, because Daffodil violated OADA when he sold the glue to Primrose.

(D) For Primrose, unless Primrose could reasonably have been mistaken for an 18 year-old by Daffodil.



\section{Questions 15-16} are based on the following fact situation:

Pluto, Donald, and Mickey were involved in a three-car accident. Pluto was badly injured and suffered \$ 100,000$ worth of damages. The jurisdiction in which the accident took place has a "pure" comparative negligence statute. Pluto filed suit against Donald for his injuries. The trier of fact determined that Pluto was $30 \%$ at fault, Donald was $30 \%$ at fault, and Mickey was $40 \%$ at fault.


\section{15} Assume for purposes of this question only that the laws of the jurisdiction provide for joint and several liability and that the common law rules regarding contribution have been abolished in favor of a system of contribution based on comparative fault. How much can Pluto collect from Donald?
(A) \$ 70,000$, but Donald can compel Mickey to pay him \$ 40,000$ as contri- bution.
(B) \$ 40,000$, but Donald can compel Mickey to contribute \$ 10,000$.
(C) \$ 30,000$, because Donald was $30 \%$ at fault.


\section{ Nothing, because Donald was no more at fault than Pluto} Assume for purposes of this question only that joint and several liability has been abolished in the jurisdiction, but that the jurisdiction adheres to the common law rules regarding contribution. How much can Pluto collect from Donald?
(A) \$ 70,000$, but Donald can compel Mickey to pay him \$ 35,000$ as contri- bution.
(B) \$ 40,000$, and Donald cannot compel Mickey to pay him contribution.
(C) \$ 30,000$, because Donald was $30 \%$ at fault.
(D) Nothing, because Donald was no more at fault than Pluto.

\section{Question 17}

A family planning group submitted a proposal to the Larchville School Board to permit its high school students to have access to contraceptives through the school health clinic. After an article on the proposal in the Larchville Journal, the school board offices were swamped with calls and letters on the issue, most of them against the proposal. It was decided that the school board meeting scheduled for the next week would be held in the high school gymnasium and have an expanded public comment period. At the meeting, which was covered by a reporter from the Journal, Carla was one of numerous parents who spoke out against the proposal. One of the few speakers in favor of the proposal was Charlene, a director of a family planning group from a nearby large city, who described having to drop out of high school when she became pregnant as a teenager. When the Journal article on the school board meeting came out the next day, it identified Carla by her full name but described her as in favor of the proposal because she had to drop out of high school when she became pregnant. This statement was not true and caused great distress to Carla, whose religion considered premarital sex and artificial means of contraception sinful. If Carla brings a defamation action against the Larchville Journal, what will be the probable result?
(A) The Journal will be liable because the statement in the article was false and defamatory.
(B) The Journal will be liable if it was negli- gent as to the statement's truth or falsity.
(C) The Journal will not be liable unless its reporter knew of the statement's falsity or acted with reckless disregard as to the statement's truth or falsity.
(D) The Journal will not be liable because it was reporting on a public proceeding. 







$$
\text { F. }
$$



\section{CONSTITUTIONAL LAW ANSWERS}

\section{Answer to Question 1}

(B) The Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment prohibits state dilution of the right to vote by malapportionment of electoral districts. This rule applies to electoral districts for local governmental bodies as well as for the state legislature. When a local government establishes voting districts for the election of representatives, it must establish districts that do not have a significant variance in the number of persons in each district. Here, the Paulopolis districts have twice as many persons as the St. Minny districts, creating an unconstitutional dilution of the Paulopolis citizens' right to vote. (A) is incorrect. The clause in Article IV, Section 4 guaranteeing a "republican form of government" to the states has been judged by the Court to involve a political question. The Court will therefore decline to address that issue. (C) is incorrect because the Article IV Privileges and Immunities Clause, which provides that citizens of each state shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens of the several states, only prohibits a state from discriminating in favor of its own citizens and against citizens of other states with regard to "fundamental rights," i.e., those involving important commercial activities or civil liberties. Here, out-of-state citizens are not being discriminated against, so the clause is not applicable. (D) is incorrect because the Due Process Clause is usually used to review a law that limits the liberty of all persons to engage in some activity, whereas the Equal Protection Clause is implicated when a law limits the liberty or rights of some persons but not others. The option raising the equal protection argument is therefore the better choice.

\section{Answer to Question 2}

(C) Dorit's strongest basis for challenging her denial of benefits by the federal government is the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment. Dorit's argument is that the regulations for determining who receives benefits create arbitrary and discriminatory classifications among similarly situated groups. Such classifications by a state government can be challenged under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, but there is no counterpart to this clause applicable to the federal government. Nevertheless, the Supreme Court has held that grossly unreasonable discrimination by the federal government violates the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment, and has applied the same standards that it uses in equal protection actions against a state. Hence, this clause constitutes Dorit's only plausible basis for a suit challenging the regulations. (A) is wrong because the Privileges and Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment applies only to states and not the federal government, and because it protects only certain privileges and immunities of national citizenship, none of which are implicated in this question. (B) is wrong because, as discussed above, the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not apply to the federal government. (D) is incorrect because a bill of attainder is a legislative act that inflicts punishment without a judicial trial on individuals who are designated either by name or in terms of past conduct. No aspect of the law here constitutes a bill of attainder.

\section{Answer to Question 3}

(D) The federal statute will be upheld if Congress had a rational basis for making the classifications that it did. Governmental actions involving classifications of persons are examined under one of three standards, regardless of whether it is a federal government action scrutinized under the Fifth Amendment Due Process Clause or a state government action reviewed under the Fourteenth Amendment Equal Protection Clause. If a suspect classification or fundamental right is

\title{

\section{80} CONSTITUTIONAL LAW
}

involved, the strict scrutiny standard will be applied and the action will be struck down unless the government proves that it is necessary to achieve a compelling interest. If a quasi-suspect classification is involved, the Court will likely require the government to prove that the action is substantially related to an important government interest. If any other classification is involved, the action will be upheld unless the challenger proves that the action is not rationally related to a legitimate government interest. Here, the classification does not involve either suspect or quasisuspect classifications. While the regulations do have an incidental effect on marriage, which is a fundamental right, they are not creating a direct obstacle to the exercise of this right. Thus, the rational basis standard will apply to the classifications; the statute will be upheld if Congress could rationally conclude that an unmarried disabled child, or one who marries another disabled person, is more likely to be needy than one who marries a nondisabled person. (A) is incorrect because Congress's power to spend money to "provide for the common defense and the general welfare" is not unfettered. The Fifth Amendment Due Process Clause and other constitutional restrictions on the exercise of federal government power apply to congressional expenditures. (B) is incorrect because the receipt of disability payments has been held to be a property interest that cannot be terminated under the Due Process Clause without fair procedures. [Mathews v. Eldridge (1976)] Nor can Congress condition the receipt of these benefits on some ground that itself constitutes a violation of the Bill of Rights. (C) is wrong because the fact that the classification will save the government money is not enough to make the classification rational. Congress could have instead retained benefits only for disabled persons who marry nondisabled persons; the classification would save the government money but it would be difficult to uphold even under a rational basis standard. Choice (D) offers the best justification for upholding the classification under the rational basis standard.

\section{Answer to Question 4}

(C) A law containing gender-based classifications must be shown by its proponent to be substantially related to important government interests. State laws that discriminate by treating people in similar situations in dissimilar ways are subject to challenge under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Supreme Court usually applies one of three tests for evaluating an equal protection challenge to a statute. Where the classification relates to who may exercise a fundamental right or is based on a "suspect" characteristic, the classification must be necessary to promote a compelling state interest. Where the classification relates only to matters of economics or social welfare, it is valid if it is rationally related to a legitimate governmental interest. For quasi-suspect classifications, the Court has applied an intermediate standard, upholding the law if its proponent can show, by an exceedingly persuasive justification, that the classification is substantially related to important governmental interests. A distinction based on gender, such as the provision in the Margate statute for free financial counseling to single mothers but not to single fathers in the same financial situation, is a quasi-suspect classification. Thus, to win the case, Margate must show that favoring mothers over fathers is substantially related to an important governmental interest. (A) is incorrect because a classification based on gender is subject to an intermediate level of scrutiny, requiring a "substantial" rather than "rational" relation and an "important" governmental interest rather than merely a "legitimate" governmental interest. (B) is incorrect because gender is not a suspect classification that requires the compelling state interest test to be applied. Even if it were, Peter would not have the burden of proving absence of a compelling interest; Margate would have to prove the existence of a compelling interest for the law to be upheld. (D) is wrong for similar reasons: gender is an "almost suspect" class that requires a showing of more than just a rational relationship, and, even if that test were appropriate, it would require Peter to bear the burden of demonstrating that the law does $\boldsymbol{n o t}$ have a rational relationship to a legitimate state interest. 

\section{Answer to Question 5}

(C) New Jingo cannot show a compelling state interest for treating resident aliens differently from other residents. Under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, no state may deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. If a government statute classifies persons based on a "suspect" class, strict scrutiny will be applied (i.e., the statute will be upheld only if it is necessary to achieve a compelling government purpose). State and local laws based on a person's alienage are subject to strict scrutiny; the state must show a compelling state interest to justify the disparate treatment. Here, Josh is a resident of New Jingo. The statute treats him differently from other residents, however, because of his status as an alien-all resident aliens are scrutinized to determine whether they were citizens of a country that had taken United States citizens hostage. The state here has no compelling interest to justify the classification; the statute appears to be simply a political statement on a foreign policy matter that the state has no power over. Hence, the Equal Protection Clause is Josh's best argument to strike down the statute. (A) is incorrect for two reasons: the Privileges and Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment applies only to citizens of the United States, and it only protects certain attributes of national citizenship (such as the right to vote for federal officials). Here, Josh is not a citizen of the United States, and the right to a higher education at a state university is not an attribute of national citizenship. (B) is incorrect because an ex post facto law is legislation that retroactively alters the criminal law in a substantially prejudicial manner. It does not apply to retroactive alteration of civil regulations, such as the right to attend a state university. (D) is wrong because Josh would have to overcome several hurdles to make an effective due process argument. Procedural due process principles, applicable to the states through the Fourteenth Amendment, provide that government shall not take a person's life, liberty, or property without due process of law. While property includes more than personal belongings, an abstract need for or unilateral expectation of the benefit is not enough. There must be a legitimate claim or "entitlement" to the benefit under state law. While there is a property interest in public education when school attendance is required, the Supreme Court has never specifically held that a property interest exists in public education at the college level. [See Board of Curators v. Horowitz (1978)] Even if Josh could persuade the court to make that assumption, he would also have to establish that imposing the higher tuition effectively deprives him of that property interest and that the registrar's procedures for denying him the lower tuition rate did not satisfy constitutional requirements. At best, he could require the university to give him a hearing before charging him the higher tuition. To strike down the statute itself, however, Josh's best argument is based on the Equal Protection Clause.

\section{Answer to Question 6}

(D) Timon's constitutional arguments will fail because his firing by the school did not constitute state action. The Fourteenth Amendment Due Process Clause, which makes many of the provisions of the Bill of Rights applicable to the states, does not apply to purely private conduct that interferes with these rights. Thus, unless the private individual (i) was performing exclusively public functions, or (ii) took actions with significant state involvement, the individual's action is not unconstitutional. In this case, The Classical School is a private institution performing a function-education-that has never been considered to be an exclusively public function. [See Pierce v. Society of Sisters (1925)] Furthermore, its licensing by the state and receipt of state funds do not constitute significant state involvement with regard to its personnel matters; thus, Timon cannot establish that the school exercised state action. [See Rendell-Baker v. Kohn (1982)] (A) is incorrect because constitutional protection for freedom of speech does not extend to actions taken by private individuals. Furthermore, even a public school probably could have fired Timon 

\section{CONSTITUTIONAL LAW}

for his speech (if its termination procedures were otherwise proper). Because public schools generally are not public forums, reasonable restrictions based on legitimate pedagogical concerns rather than the content of the speech are permissible. [Bethel School District No. 403 v. Fraser (1986)] The school reasonably could argue that urging the student assembly to organize a protest against a school policy would disrupt discipline and interfere with its educational process. (B) is incorrect for the same reason as (A): the constitutional right to due process of law does not apply to private conduct. Had Timon been fired by a public school, he would be able to claim a property right in his employment for the balance of his contract. The school probably would have had to provide him with a pretermination opportunity to respond to the charges against him. [Cleveland Board of Education v. Loudermill (1985)] (C) is incorrect; Timon did have property rights in his job because he had a three-year contract with the school. Had Timon instead been an employee-at-will, without a contract, he would have had no property interest in continued employment even if his employer had been a public school. [Bishop v. Wood (1976)]

\section{Answer to Question 7}

(C) Driller should prevail because Petrolia's law violates the Interstate Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV, Section 2. This clause, which provides that "citizens of each state shall be entitled to all Privileges and Immunities of citizens in the several states," prohibits discrimination by a state against nonresidents when the discrimination involves "fundamental rights." Fundamental rights for purposes of this clause are those involving important commercial activities (such as pursuit of a livelihood) or civil liberties. Here, the statute directly discriminates against nonresidents of the state by banning their being hired as oilfield workers unless no qualified residents can be found. Because employment is a fundamental right for purposes of the Interstate Privileges and Immunities Clause, the court should find the statute unconstitutional. (A) is incorrect. A state law that mandates employment discrimination on grounds of race, religion, etc., will probably violate the Fourteenth Amendment Equal Protection Clause, but that clause is not the only means of challenging discriminatory state laws. Discrimination based on state residency must pass muster under the Interstate Privileges and Immunities Clause. (B) is incorrect because the state cannot show a sufficient justification for discriminating against nonresidents. A state law requiring private sector employers to give hiring preference to residents will only be valid under the Privileges and Immunities Clause if the state can show that (i) the nonresidents are the cause or source of the problem it is attempting to solve, and (ii) there are no less restrictive means to solve the problem. [Hicklin v. Orbeck (1978)] In this case, Petrolia's high unemployment was caused by the drop in petroleum prices rather than by a large influx of nonresident workers, and state encouragement of alternative industries would be a less discriminatory alternative than what amounted to a total ban on the hiring of nonresidents. Hence, neither element of this test is satisfied, and the statute will not be valid under the Privileges and Immunities Clause. (D) is wrong because the Contract Clause prohibits states only from enacting any law that retroactively impairs contract rights. It does not affect contracts not yet entered into. Thus, a hiring law would not implicate the Contract Clause.

\section{Answer to Question 8}

(B) The court will probably find the statute unconstitutional as an improper restriction of commercial speech. If the speech regulated concerns a lawful activity and is not misleading or fraudulent, the regulation will be valid if it (i) serves a substantial government interest, (ii) directly advances the interest, and (iii) is narrowly tailored to serve the substantial interest. While this test does not require that the least restrictive means be used, there must be a reasonable fit between the legislation's end and the means chosen. The greater the restriction on speech, the less likely it will be deemed to be reasonable. The Supreme Court has never upheld a complete ban on truthful advertising of a lawful product because such a restriction is not narrowly tailored. [See 44 Liquormart, Inc. v. Rhode Island (1996)] Hence, the complete ban on advertising of tobacco products probably will be an unconstitutional infringement on freedom of speech. (A) is incorrect because the state's decision not to ban the sale of tobacco products does not preclude it from asserting a substantial interest in discouraging the sale or use of the products; regulations restricting advertising of the products clearly serve a substantial interest, satisfying the first prong of the test. (C) is wrong because regulation of speech is more likely to violate the First Amendment than regulation of conduct. Here, while the state's power to ban tobacco products would not raise First Amendment issues, the ban on advertising for a product does, and the constitutional requirements for regulations of commercial speech must be satisfied. Had the state chosen to make sale of tobacco products illegal, it could have banned advertising of the products, but since it chose not to make their sale illegal, any restrictions on advertising for the products have to satisfy the test described above. (D) is incorrect because the standard for testing the validity of commercial speech regulations is more stringent than the "rational basis" test. As stated above, the regulation must be narrowly tailored to directly advance a substantial government interest.

\section{Answer to Question 9}

(A) The anti-littering ordinance will be upheld because it furthers an important government interest unrelated to the content of the communication and is narrowly tailored to the furtherance of that interest. As a general rule, conduct that is intended to communicate is not immune from reasonable government regulation, even though it takes place in a public forum such as a park. The noncommunicative impact of speech-related conduct in a public forum can be regulated to further an important government interest independent of the speech aspects of the conduct as long as the incidental restriction on the ability to communicate that message is narrowly tailored to further the interest in question, so that alternative channels for communicating the message are available. The prevention of litter, as a means of maintaining public facilities in usable condition and protecting property values, is an important enough government interest to allow some type of regulation. The ban on littering is narrowly tailored to accomplish its purpose, unlike, for example, a ban on distributing leaflets that may end up on the ground. The regulation probably would not have precluded Demagoga even from dumping the barrel if she had picked up the trash after her speech was over. (B) is incorrect because it is too broad; some speech-related conduct cannot be punished (e.g., burning a flag). The critical distinction is whether the offense relates to the communicative content of the conduct or to state interests independent of its communicative aspects. (C) is incorrect because the conduct aspect of symbolic speech can be regulated under the test indicated above. (D) is incorrect because the compelling interest standard only applies where the restrictions are based on the content of the message being communicated. Where the regulation is not based on content, the government need show only an important interest.

\section{Answer to Question 10}

(B) The action of the board is impermissible because it establishes a preference for some religious sects over others without a compelling interest. Under the Establishment Clause, if a law or government program includes a preference for some religious sects over others, the law will be held invalid unless it is narrowly tailored to promote a compelling government interest. Here, there is no legitimate reason for not extending the exemption to the Church of the Sunrise; the government is not permitted to classify religions based on a particular religion's popularity or the credibility of its beliefs. (A) is incorrect because the courts may not declare a religious belief to 

\section{CONSTITUTIONAL LAW}

be false. Hence, regardless of what the board "proves," it may not refuse to apply the exemption. (C) is wrong because the accommodation of religion by the exemption is a permissible government purpose and has only an incidental effect of advancing religion. [See Corporation of the Presiding Bishop of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints v. Amos (1987)] (D) is incorrect. The state probably could abolish its exemption for religious employers without violating the Free Exercise Clause, because the antidiscrimination statute is a law of general applicability that was apparently not motivated by a desire to interfere with religion. However, since it does provide an exemption for religious employers, it is not permitted to discriminate among them.

\section{Answer to Question 11}

(B) Congress may constitutionally regulate wages and hours of state and local employees under its commerce power. The Commerce Clause of Article I, Section 8 vests in Congress broad powers to regulate any activity, local or interstate, which either in itself or in combination with other activities has a substantial economic effect upon, or effect on movement in, interstate commerce. Under this approach, Congress clearly has the power to regulate wages and hours of those employed by private employers. [See United States v. Darby (1941)] This power has been held applicable to state and local governments; Congress can therefore require state or local governments to follow the provisions of federal legislation requiring a state or private employer to pay overtime wages to its employees. [Garcia v. San Antonio Metropolitan Transit Authority (1985)] Thus, Patchquilt will not succeed in its challenge to the statute. (A) is incorrect because the statute's constitutionality is not dependent on the Necessary and Proper Clause, which permits Congress to exercise auxiliary powers that are "necessary and proper" for carrying out Congress's enumerated powers. The power to require state and private employers to pay overtime wages to their employees comes directly from Congress's enumerated power to regulate commerce among the states. (C) is incorrect because the Court has abandoned former holdings that the Tenth Amendment precluded Congress from regulating areas involving the traditional functions of state and local governments. A court is unlikely to strike down on Tenth Amendment grounds a law such as the one here that subjects state and local governments to regulations that are equally applicable to the private sector. (D) is incorrect because the state police power does not prevail over a federal statute based on Congress's power over interstate commerce. Patchquilt's health and safety concerns regarding the garbage can only be resolved by paying overtime wages or hiring additional employees.

\section{Answer to Question 12}

(C) The statute banning Grippers is an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce even though an equally safe alternative is available in all 50 states. If Congress has not enacted laws regarding a subject, a state may regulate local aspects of interstate commerce if the regulation: (i) does not discriminate against out-of-state competition to benefit local economic interests; and (ii) is not unduly burdensome (i.e., the incidental burden on interstate commerce does not outweigh the legitimate local benefits). The facts do not suggest that Congress has regulated the subject of truck tires on state roads. The facts also do not indicate whether Grippers or Grabbers are manufactured in State Grapefruit, so discrimination in favor of local economic interests is absent. The final test is a balancing test to determine whether the regulation is unduly burdensome, and here the regulation probably will fail. In Bibb v. Navajo Freight Lines (1959), the Supreme Court invalidated an Illinois statute requiring trucks to use contour mudguards rather than flat mudguards. One aspect of the burden on commerce in that case was that another state required flat mudguards rather than contour mudguards, precluding trucking companies from using one type of mudguard in all 50 states and indicating that the safety benefits that Illinois was claiming for contour mudguards had not been conclusively established. Because Grabbers are now legal in all 50 states, the burden on interstate commerce is not as great in this case. Nevertheless, it is still significant. By not permitting equally safe alternative types of tires, which might be cheaper or more readily available than Grabbers, Grapefruit is imposing an undue burden on all trucking companies in other states whose trailers might at some time pass through Grapefruit. On the other side of the equation, the Illinois mudguard regulation in Bibb arguably was a safety measure, which is an area of legitimate local concern. Here, there is no evidence of any safety benefit; both types of tires have been deemed equally safe by independent testing labs. On balance, therefore, the statute is unconstitutional because its incidental burden on interstate commerce outweighs any legitimate local benefits. (A) is incorrect because the equivalence in safety makes the state's argument weaker. Had Grabbers been shown to be substantially safer than Grippers, the state would be able to argue that a legitimate local benefit outweighs the burden on interstate commerce. $(\mathrm{B})$ is incorrect because the state power to regulate highway safety is not absolute, but must be balanced against the federal commerce power. If a safety regulation imposes a significant burden on interstate commerce, particularly where the objective of the regulation could be achieved by less restrictive alternatives, the Court will probably find it unconstitutional. (D) is incorrect for two reasons. First, the Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV applies only to citizens of a state, and neither the trade association nor the corporations it is composed of are considered citizens of a state. More importantly, the Clause only prohibits discrimination by a state in favor of its own citizens concerning fundamental rights. Even an individual truck driver who is a citizen of another state could not use the Clause to challenge the Grapefruit statute because it also bars Grapefruit residents from using the tires.

\section{Answer to Question 13}

(C) Executive agreements with other governments fall within the President's broad power over foreign relations and will supersede conflicting state laws. Although executive agreements are not expressly provided for in the Constitution, they have become institutionalized in practice. Because they are not ratified by the Senate as treaties are, they cannot override a valid federal statute, but they are supreme over conflicting state laws to the same extent as a treaty. (A) is incorrect even though the probate of property generally is within a state's exclusive power as far as regulation is concerned. Where this activity also falls within the federal government's exclusive power over international affairs, any conflicting state regulations are superseded. (B) is incorrect because, as against state law, an executive agreement has the same effect as a treaty. Unless in violation of federal constitutional provisions, an executive agreement takes precedence over state law. (D) is incorrect because the Full Faith and Credit Clause of Article IV, Section 1 requires only that each state recognize the laws and judicial proceedings of every other state. It has no application to executive agreements made by the President.

\section{Answer to Question 14}

(D) The best reason to uphold the statute is that it reflects the balance of power between the President and Congress over war. The Constitution makes the President the commander in chief of the armed forces, but it gives Congress the power to declare war and raise an army and navy. The Supreme Court has never delineated the extent of either branch's power under these clauses, but clearly the power over war is shared. Since none of the other answers is correct, (D) is the only viable alternative. (A) is incorrect because it is too broad. The President need not obtain the advice and consent of the Senate concerning all foreign affairs, but only with regard to treaties. Moreover, nothing in the Constitution requires the President to obtain the advice and consent 

\section{CONSTITUTIONAL LAW}

of the Senate regarding how to wage a war. (B) is incorrect because it is too narrow. The President's power as commander in chief has historically extended beyond the power to repel invasions. At the very least, it has also included the power to protect citizens abroad. (C) is incorrect because the President has the power, as commander in chief, to send troops to another country even in the absence of a declaration of war (e.g., to protect United States citizens).

\section{Answer to Question 15}

(A) Article III, Section 2 of the Constitution extends the federal judicial power only to "cases and controversies"; the Supreme Court has interpreted this requirement to prohibit rendition of advisory opinions. The opinion sought here is advisory since the law in question has not yet been passed. Had the legislation already been passed in its present form, the Court could have rendered a declaratory judgment even if the state had not yet attempted to enforce the law, because the "controversy" would be genuine. In this case, however, the legislation is not in its final form and ultimately may not be applied against Master Minerals' operation even if it becomes law. (B) and (C) are incorrect because the Court should refuse to hear the case altogether. It is irrelevant that the state supreme court has given an advisory opinion on the matter. (D) has the correct result but for the wrong reason. While a federal court should refuse to hear a case that turned on state law, the challenge here was that the law was unconstitutional, which may refer not only to its state constitutional status but also to its federal constitutional status, requiring a decision turning on federal law.

\section{Answer to Question 16}

(C) The court should dismiss the action because Rupert cannot show that he has an injury that will be remedied by a decision in his favor. Even if a federal court has jurisdiction over the subject matter of a case, it will not decide a constitutional challenge to a government action unless the person challenging the action has "standing" to raise the constitutional issue, i.e., a concrete stake in the outcome of the controversy. This requires plaintiff to show an injury in fact-caused by government conduct-that will be remedied by a decision in her favor. Here, Rupert cannot establish that whatever injury he might have suffered by having his purchase blocked would be remedied by an injunction against the subsequent transaction; hence, he does not have standing to obtain an injunction against the sale to Sumner. (A) is incorrect. While Rupert could claim that the Fifth Amendment Due Process Clause forbids discriminatory treatment in the exercise of a First Amendment right to be a broadcaster, that argument is unlikely to succeed (as discussed below). In any case, the court will not consider the merits of his argument because he does not have standing to enjoin the purchase by Sumner. (B) is incorrect because, even if Rupert were able to establish standing, the FCC may regulate ownership of the broadcast media by forbidding ownership of a radio or television station by a daily newspaper located in the same community, as a means of promoting the diversity of information received by the public. (D) is wrong even though it is a true statement (as discussed above). The court would not even reach the merits of Rupert's case before dismissing it; it would dismiss the action on the basis of Rupert's lack of standing to challenge the sale of the station to Sumner.

\section{Answer to Question 17}

(A) The court should grant Bob's motion because the Eleventh Amendment generally prohibits a federal court from hearing a private party's claim against its own or another state government. This jurisdictional bar includes actions against a state government for injunctive or declaratory relief where the state itself, rather than state officials, is named as a party. Here, the citizens' group is seeking an injunction against the state legislature itself rather than a state official. Thus, the action would be barred by the Eleventh Amendment. (B) is not as good an answer as (A) because political questions generally involve issues committed by the Constitution to one of the other branches of the federal government and issues lacking well-developed judicial standards for resolution and enforcement. Here, the lawsuit is alleging that the state legislature will violate the Establishment Clause if it allows Bob to take office. This issue does not involve other branches of the federal government and, at the same time, allows the court to use extensive Establishment Clause precedent to reach a decision in the case. Hence, the court is not likely to dismiss the lawsuit on political question grounds. (C) is wrong because standing to challenge an expenditure as a violation of the Establishment Clause is limited to specific enactment under the government's taxing and spending power. Even though state funds might be expended in this case as a routine part of the legislative privileges granted to Bob, it is not an expenditure that falls within the Establishment Clause exception. (D) is incorrect because, as discussed above, an action seeking injunctive relief against the state as a party is also barred by the Eleventh Amendment. 





\section{CONTRACTS ANSWERS}

\section{Answer to Question 1}

(A) Babe can recover because, under the modern trend, the preexisting duty rule does not apply if the duty is owed to a third person. Generally, contracts must be supported by consideration. A promise to perform is valid consideration, but if a person already owes a duty to perform, traditionally that performance cannot be used as consideration for another promise. Thus, under the traditional rule, Babe could not enforce Joe's promise to pay Babe \$ 5,000$ if Babe hit a home run because Babe gave no valid consideration in exchange for Joe's promise, since Babe owed a preexisting duty to his ball club to exert his best efforts to hit home runs. However, under the modern view as formulated in Restatement (Second) of Contracts, section 73 , a duty is a preexisting duty only if it is owed to the promisor. Thus, a promise to perform a duty is valid consideration as long as the duty of performance is not already owed to the promisee. In other words, if the duty is owed to a third party, a promise to perform given to another is valid consideration as long as it was bargained for. (B) is incorrect because there is no exception to the preexisting duty rule-modern or otherwise-that allows the promisor to recover merely because his performance benefited the third party. Babe can recover under the modern approach because his promise to Jimmy's father was bargained for. Conversely, Babe does not have to prove that the value of his home run to Jimmy was at least \$ 5,000$, because courts generally will not inquire into the adequacy of consideration. (C) would be correct under the traditional rule, but this question is one of the few questions where you are asked about and expected to know the modern trend. As explained above, under the modern trend, the promise here is valid consideration because the duty to hit home runs was owed to a third party (the ball club) rather than to the promisee (Joe). (D) is wrong because while it is true that moral consideration is not good consideration, Joe did not rely on moral consideration, but rather exchanged a promise to pay \$ 5,000$ for Babe's performance.

\section{Answer to Question 2}

(B) Where a past obligation would be enforceable except for a technical defense to enforcement, a new promise in writing will be enforceable even in the absence of any new consideration. As a general rule, a contract requires a bargained-for exchange between the parties as consideration; "past" or "moral" consideration is usually insufficient. Among the many exceptions to this rule is where a technical defense such as the statute of limitations bars enforcement of the prior obligation and a new promise is made in writing. In such a case, courts will state that the "moral" consideration is sufficient consideration for the new agreement or that the existence of the prior obligation is a substitute for consideration. Regardless of how the courts characterize it, the new promise will be enforceable only according to its terms, not the terms of the original obligation. Hence, Cheap is entitled to recover \$ 600$ on the basis of Deadbeat's signed letter promising to pay that amount. (A) is incorrect because the new agreement has no effect on the original obligation. The new agreement is what is being enforced, not the original obligation. Had Deadbeat instead promised to pay "the debt I owed to Cheap," the new agreement would be enforceable for \$ 1,000$. (C) is incorrect because the statute of limitations just bars the judicial remedies for enforcing the prior agreement; it does not nullify the agreement. Hence, the prior agreement may serve as a substitute for consideration if a new agreement is made. (D) is incorrect because, as discussed above, no additional consideration is needed for the agreement to pay \$ 600$.

\section{Answer to Question 3}

(A) United Leasing is contractually bound to lease the skybox to Multimedia. Under certain circumstances, an executory bilateral contract may be formed without any communication of 

\section{CONTRACTS}

acceptance. A common example is where prior dealings between the parties, or trade practices known to both, create a commercially reasonable expectation by the offeror that silence represents an acceptance. In such a case, the offeree is under a duty to notify the offeror if it does not intend to accept. Here, despite the language in the invitation making leases subject to approval, United never sent any notification of approval prior to sending out the tickets and invoice right before the season would start. This course of dealing over the past five years gave Multimedia reason to expect that United's silence after the invitation was returned constituted an acceptance by United, regardless of United's actual intent. [See Restatement (Second) of Contracts $\S 69$, illus. 5] (B) is incorrect because the language stating that approval would be required precludes the invitation from constituting an offer. Multimedia's response constitutes the offer and incorporates the term relating to approval by management of United Leasing. Thus, United had the power to reject Multimedia's offer if it acted within a reasonable time. Its failure to do so, given the course of dealing between the parties, constituted an acceptance. (C) is wrong because, as stated above, United Leasing had a duty to reject Multimedia's offer within a commercially reasonable time. Its delay of over two months before notifying Multimedia right before the season began, after Multimedia had scheduled clients to use the skybox, was not commercially reasonable under the circumstances. (D) is incorrect because Multimedia would not have to rely on a quasi-contract theory to recover its reliance damages. As discussed above, Multimedia was correct in its assertion that a contract was created between the parties and that United Leasing would be in breach if it did not perform. Multimedia would then be entitled to all appropriate contract remedies, including reliance damages.

\section{Answer to Question 4}

(B) Bernaise and Hollandaise formed a contract when they agreed on all salient points after negotiations. One element of their agreement was that the terms would be put in writing, a process sometimes called "memorializing" the agreement. The writing does not constitute the agreement itself, but is merely a written record of it. Another element of their oral agreement concerned when it would take effect: upon completion of the "memorialization." Hobson's failure to initial the writing, whether deliberate or inadvertent, was not the failure of a condition, but rather a breach of the oral agreement that he would do so. (A) is incorrect because the oral agreement was already in effect at the time the writing was mailed. The processes of offer and acceptance took place during the oral negotiations. Even if the mailing of the writing could somehow be seen as an offer, there are no facts, such as detrimental reliance, that show it to be irrevocable. (C) is incorrect because the better view, as described above, is that the writing was a memorial of the existing oral agreement. Even if the requirement of Hobson's initialing were an express condition, Hollandaise would probably not be permitted to prevent the occurrence of the condition and then claim the benefit of its nonoccurrence. (D) is incorrect because acceptance had already taken place upon the parties' reaching oral agreement. This choice appears to invoke the mailbox rule but gets it wrong, since a mailed acceptance is generally effective upon posting (which occurred prior to the phone call), not upon receipt. In any event, the mailbox rule is not applicable to these facts.

\section{Answer to Question 5}

(C) The extreme difficulty and expense of repairing or replacing the oven constitutes a good faith reason for FGF to cancel the contract, as it is entitled to do under the contract. Thus, GM will not prevail. Reservation of an unqualified right to cancel or withdraw from a contract at any time may amount to an illusory promise. However, the promise is not illusory, and there is a valid consideration, if the right to cancel is restricted in any way. Here, the right of either FGF or GM to cancel is restricted because it must be preceded by reasonable notice to the other party. In addition, the Code's implied requirement of good faith in all sales contracts imposes an additional restriction on the parties' right to cancel. Therefore, the promises are not illusory, and both parties are bound. FGF finds itself confronted with circumstances that present extreme and unreasonable difficulty and expense in complying with its contractual duties of supplying pate. While this additional test might not be sufficient to discharge FGF's duties on grounds of impracticability, it is clearly grounds for supplying FGF with a good faith reason for canceling the contract. (A) is incorrect because FGF is entitled to cancel the contract for a good faith reason upon giving reasonable notice. It is not necessary to show impossibility. (B) is incorrect because the fact that the parties agreed to a cancellation provision indicates that FGF did not assume all risks of increased expenses in making pate. The unreasonable amount of expense and difficulty involved with the repair and/or replacement of the oven supports FGF's good faith decision to cancel the contract. (D) is incorrect because, while some courts have found promises to be illusory if the contract provided for an unqualified right to cancel the contract at any time, here the right to cancel is restricted by requirements of good faith reasons for cancellation as well as giving reasonable notice.

\section{Answer to Question 6}

(B) Plunger can be held liable because its offer will be deemed irrevocable for a reasonable length of time on a theory of promissory estoppel. Promissory estoppel renders an offer binding as an option contract even without consideration if the offeror should reasonably expect it to induce action or forbearance of a substantial character by the offeree before acceptance, and such action or forbearance is in fact induced. [Restatement (Second) of Contracts 87] Plunger offered to do the work for \$ 10,000$ if Jenny was awarded the contract. Plunger should have expected that Jenny would use this figure to prepare her bid and that if she was awarded the contract she would be bound. This is what occurred. The measure of Jenny's damages is the amount she reasonably paid for a substitute performance, less the amount saved as a consequence of the breach; i.e., the \$ 12,000$ paid to Flusher minus the \$ 10,000$ not paid to Plunger, or \$ 2,000$. (A) is incorrect because Jenny has not yet paid Plunger anything and has only suffered \$ 2,000$ in damages. Jenny, therefore, is only entitled to the measure of damages described above. (C) is incorrect because it is irrelevant that Jenny paid a reasonable price for the substitute performance. In the absence of awareness on her part of Plunger's mistake, which is not indicated here, she was entitled to have the work done for the contract price, or to receive damages for the difference between the contract price and the cost of the substitute performance. (D) is incorrect because Jenny is entitled to relief even if she did not "accept" Plunger's bid, because she detrimentally relied on it by using it in her bid.

\section{Answer to Question 7}

(C) Jenny did not accept Ohmco's bid even though she used it to prepare her bid. Jenny's advertisement constituted an invitation for subcontractors to make offers. Ohmco's bid constituted an offer. The general rule is that acceptance of an offer must be communicated to the offeror, and here Jenny did not communicate any acceptance to Ohmco. Although statutes in some cases may create an exception to the general rule by making acceptance of a subcontractor bid automatic upon the general contractor's being awarded the contract, no such exception is indicated by these facts. (A) is incorrect because the facts do not reveal any basis for an inference that Jenny would use the lowest bid. Typically, a contractor will consider other factors as well, such as reputation or past performance, in deciding which bid to accept. (B) is incorrect even though Ohmco's bid could be treated as an offer for an option contract. Here, the acceptance of the option contract to 

\section{CONTRACTS}

keep the bid open occurred when Jenny relied on the bid to prepare her own bid. [See Restatement (Second) of Contracts $\S 87]$ The award of the general contract had no effect on the option contract and did not create an acceptance of the offer for the electrical contract (as discussed above). (D) is incorrect, although it is factually a true statement. Jenny's advertisement was an invitation for offers, not an offer in itself. The offer on these facts was made by Ohmco, and the reason no enforceable contract exists is that Jenny never accepted Ohmco's offer.

\section{Answer to Question 8}

(B) Betsy will prevail because complete destruction of the dictionary results in avoidance of the contract and discharge of her duty to pay, since Stan still had the risk of loss. Since the contract here is for the sale of goods, it is governed by the Uniform Commercial Code ("U.C.C."). Under the U.C.C., if a contract requires for its performance particular goods identified when the contract is made, and, before risk of loss passes to the buyer, the goods are destroyed without the fault of either party, the contract is avoided. [U.C.C. 2-613] All of the elements of section 2-613 are present here. The contract required Stan's particular dictionary, which was identified at the time the contract was made. The risk of loss had not yet passed to Betsy because in a sale by a nonmerchant such as Stan, risk of loss does not pass to the buyer until tender [U.C.C. 2-509], and Stan never tendered the dictionary here (there was no actual tender and delivery was not due until April 20). Finally, the fire was caused by Hugh's careless smoking, and so the goods were destroyed without the fault of either party. Thus, the contract is avoided. (The same conclusion would result under the common law doctrine of impossibility-all executory duties are discharged when the subsequent destruction of the subject matter of a contract renders performance impossible.) (A) is incorrect because the U.C.C. contains no such rule. The only U.C.C. remedy that depends on an injured party's insurance involves the risk of loss after the buyer's revocation of acceptance or wrongful repudiation under section 2-510. Here, Betsy does not have to pay because the destruction of the dictionary discharged her duty to do so. (C) is wrong because, as explained above, the risk of loss had not yet passed to Betsy. (D) is wrong because the U.C.C. does not follow the doctrine of equitable conversion; rather, the Code contains very specific risk of loss rules, as detailed above.

\section{Answer to Question 9}

(D) Bluto will not be liable to Olive because Bluto's duty to purchase ads was excused by Popeye's failure to use Bluto's repair shop exclusively. The facts indicate that Popeye and Bluto entered into a valid contract that required Bluto to render some performance to Olive. Olive is an intended third-party beneficiary because (i) she was expressly designated in the contract, (ii) some performance is to be made directly to her, and (iii) she stands in such a relationship to the promisee (she is Popeye's wife) that an intent to benefit her can be inferred. She can enforce the contract because her rights have vested; she has materially changed position in justifiable reliance on the promise by turning down work from two prospective clients because of the time Bluto's ads would take. However, when the third-party beneficiary sues the promisor on the contract, the promisor may assert any defenses to formation or performance that he would have been able to assert against the promisee, including failure of a condition. Bluto's promise to perform by placing all of his ads with Olive during the term of the agreement was dependent on the condition that Popeye have all of his buses repaired by Bluto. The failure of Popeye to fulfill this condition excused Bluto's duty to continue to place ads with Olive, and Bluto will be able to assert this defense to performance against Olive. (A) is incorrect because Olive's partial performance does not create a duty for Bluto to continue placing the ads. Bluto's duty is also dependent on performance by Popeye. (B) is incorrect because Olive's detrimental reliance only establishes that her rights in the contract have vested. Thus, she can bring a contract action against Bluto, but Bluto will have a defense. (C) is incorrect because a third party can acquire rights in a contract as an intended beneficiary even though she provided no consideration. The fact that Olive may be a donee beneficiary would not prevent her from enforcing the contract.

\section{Answer to Question 10}

(C) Because Olive's rights as a beneficiary had not vested, Popeye and Bluto had a right to modify their agreement without her permission. A contract that benefits a third party may confer rights on that party if she is an intended beneficiary rather than merely an incidental beneficiary. Olive is an intended beneficiary of the agreement between Popeye and Bluto because (i) she was expressly designated in the contract, (ii) some performance is to be made directly to her, and (iii) she stands in a close relationship to the promisee (Popeye), suggesting that he intended for her to benefit. However, an intended beneficiary can enforce the contract only after her rights have vested. Vesting will occur when the beneficiary (i) manifests assent to the promise in a manner invited or requested by the parties, (ii) brings suit to enforce the promise, or (iii) materially changes position in justifiable reliance on the promise. In contrast to the facts in the previous question, the facts for this question do not indicate any action on Olive's part that would have caused her rights to vest before the change in the contract extinguished her rights. (A) is incorrect even though it is a true statement. An intended beneficiary can enforce the contract only after her rights have vested, and here Olive's rights had not vested. $(\mathrm{B})$ is incorrect because Olive had no contract with Bluto. Any rights that she had were through the contract between Popeye and Bluto. (D) is incorrect. Olive can be classified as a donee beneficiary because the promisee (Popeye) is gratuitously conferring a benefit on the third party (Olive). However, a donee beneficiary is still an intended beneficiary under the Restatement (Second) of Contracts section 302. Had Olive's rights in the contract vested before they were extinguished, her divorce from Popeye would not have prevented her from enforcing the contract.

\section{Answer to Question 11}

(B) Bill can sue only Moran for breach. The effect of a valid assignment of contract rights is to establish privity of contract between the obligor and the assignee while extinguishing privity between the obligor and assignor. The assignee then replaces the assignor as the real party in interest and he alone is entitled to performance under the contract. As the real party in interest, he may enforce his rights against the obligor directly. Here, Alice (the assignor) has assigned to Bill (the assignee) the right to receive the performance of the contract by Moran (the obligor). Because Moran has materially breached the contract by departing from the specifications and using a cheaper paneling, Bill can sue Moran for breach. (A) and (D) are incorrect because Bill has no grounds for suing Alice (the assignor). The assignor does not guarantee that the obligor will perform the contract for the assignee. The assignor only warrants that she will not wrongfully exercise her power to revoke the assignment and that the obligor does not have any defenses against the assignor unknown to the assignee that can be successfully asserted if the assignee seeks to enforce the obligation. Here, Alice did not try to revoke the assignment and Moran does not appear to have any defenses against Alice. Thus, Bill cannot sue Alice. (C) is incorrect because Nicholls has no duties under the contract; he just has the right to receive payment. Unless a contrary intention appears, courts will construe language assigning "the contract" as including an assumption of the duties by the assignee. Here, however, Moran assigned only his right to payment to Nicholls and continued to perform the duties under the contract himself. Thus, no delegation of duties will be implied and Nicholls cannot be sued for breach. 

\section{CONTRACTS}

\section{Answer to Question 12}

(B) Alice will have to pay Nicholls because she remains liable on the contract. This question builds on the previous question by adding delegation of duty issues to the assignment of rights analysis. A transfer of contractual duties to a third party is called a "delegation" of duties. However, the party delegating her duties (the delegator-obligor) remains liable on her contract, even if the third person (the delegate) expressly assumes the duties (i.e., promises that he will perform the duties delegated). When the delegate promises that he will perform the duty delegated and the promise is supported by consideration or its equivalent, an assumption occurs; the nondelegating party (Nicholls) becomes a third-party beneficiary of the assumption agreement and can sue either the delegate who assumed the duty (Bill) or the delegator who remains liable on the contract (Alice). As between those two, the delegate is the principal and the delegator is the surety-if the delegator were sued on the contract, she could obtain reimbursement from the delegate based on the assumption agreement. In this case, therefore, Alice (the delegator-obligor) is still liable on the contract even though she delegated to Bill her duty to pay for the remodeling. On the other side of the contract, Nicholls is the assignee of Moran's right to payment under the contract and therefore can seek enforcement of the contract directly against Alice. (A) is incorrect because a clause prohibiting assignment of "the contract" is generally construed as barring only the delegation of the assignor's duties, not the right to receive payment from the obligor; thus, a general prohibition on assignments would not prevent Nicholls from recovering against Alice. Furthermore, a provision in a contract stating specifically that contractual rights may not be assigned is usually ineffective. In other words, the assignor retains the power to assign even though he may be liable for breach of contract, and the assignee may enforce the contract. Thus, the existence of a nonassignment clause in the contract between Alice and Moran would not have deprived Moran of the power to assign his rights to Nicholls. (C) is incorrect because, as discussed above, one who delegates her duties under a contract remains liable on the contract. (D) is wrong because the breach by Moran would be considered a minor breach and would not relieve either Bill or Alice of their duty to pay. A breach of contract is minor if the obligee gains the substantial benefit of her bargain despite the obligor's defective performance. While the aggrieved party may have a right to any provable damages for the breach, she is not relieved of her duty of performance under the contract. To reach this result, the court may treat the paneling specification only as a promise by Moran and not as a condition to Bill and Alice's duty to pay. Alternatively, if complying with the paneling specification is considered a condition to the duty to pay, the court will excuse the condition under the doctrine of substantial performance, which is particularly applicable to construction contracts. Excuse of the condition makes Alice's duty to pay absolute. Since the two imported hardwoods are virtually identical and used interchangeably in the construction industry, Moran has substantially performed under the contract and his breach of contract will be considered minor. Hence, Alice will be liable to pay him for the work.

\section{Answer to Question 13}

(A) Because Trendee accepted delivery of the 40 swimsuits, which was Stingray's counteroffer to Trendee's initial order, a contract was created for the 40 suits at \$ 10$ each. As a general rule, advertisements, catalogs, and other price quotations are construed as invitations for offers rather than offers. If the language of the catalog could be construed as a definite promise to specific offerees, a court might construe it as an offer, but there is no evidence in this question for such an interpretation. Trendee's order is therefore an offer to purchase 100 swimsuits; because goods are involved, U.C.C. Article 2 applies. Under U.C.C. section 2-206(1)(b), an offer to buy goods for prompt shipment is construed as inviting acceptance either by a promise to ship or by prompt shipment of conforming or nonconforming goods. In this case, Stingray shipped goods that did not conform to the quantity term of Trendee's offer. The Code provides that the shipment of nonconforming goods amounts to both an acceptance of the offer and a breach of the newly formed contract unless the shipper precedes or accompanies the shipment with notice that it is offered as an accommodation. Here, Stingray notified Trendee at the time of its shipment that it would not be able to satisfy the balance of Trendee's order this season. This accommodation notice makes Stingray's shipment a counteroffer, which Trendee accepted by taking delivery and beginning to sell the swimsuits. Stingray is therefore entitled to \$ 400$, the price specified by the counteroffer. (B) is incorrect because Stingray's shipment of the 40 swimsuits was not a breach of contract. Had Stingray failed to notify Trendee that its shipment was an accommodation, however, the shipment would have been a nonconforming acceptance and a breach of the contract, entitling Trendee to deduct its cover damages from what it owes Stingray. [U.C.C. 2-711] (C) is incorrect because Stingray is entitled to recover the price it specified in its notice of accommodation (which had made Stingray's shipment a counteroffer). By accepting the swimsuits and beginning to sell them, Trendee accepted Stingray's offer at the price it specified. (D) is incorrect because, as discussed above, Stingray's shipment was not a breach of contract. Even if it were, Stingray would still be entitled to recover for the goods Trendee accepted, minus Trendee's cover costs.

\section{Answer to Question 14}

(B) An enforceable contract exists between WidgeCo and Distrucorp, but it does not include the limitation of liability added by Distrucorp's president. At common law, any different or additional terms in an acceptance of an offer made the response a rejection and counteroffer. In contracts for the sale of goods, however, U.C.C. section 2-207 substantially alters the common law rule. The proposal of additional terms by the offeree in a definite and timely acceptance does not constitute a rejection and counteroffer. Rather, the acceptance is effective unless it is expressly made conditional on assent to the additional terms. If both parties to the sale of goods contract are merchants, the additional terms will become part of the contract unless (i) they materially alter the contract, (ii) the offer expressly limits acceptance to the terms of the offer, or (iii) the offeror has already objected to the particular terms, or he objects within a reasonable time after notice of them is received. Here, a sale of goods contract is involved and both parties are merchants. Distrucorp accepted WidgeCo's offer by mailing back a standard printed acceptance form, even though the form contained an additional limitation of liability term added by Distrucorp's president. This limitation of liability provision did not become part of the contract, however, because it would have substantially changed the allocation of economic risks and benefits and impaired an otherwise available remedy. Hence, a valid contract exists between the parties but it is limited to the terms of WidgeCo's offer. (A) is incorrect because the material alteration by Distrucorp does not prevent formation of the contract under section 2-207, but the term that produces the material alteration will not be a part of the contract. (C) is incorrect. The additional term does not become part of the contract, even though WidgeCo raised no objection to it, because it materially altered the contract. An additional term will only become part of the contract if it is not a material alteration and if the offeror does not object to it within a reasonable time. Hence, WidgeCo's failure to object did not cause the term to be included in the contract. (D) is incorrect because under section 2-207, Distrucorp's response to WidgeCo was an acceptance rather than a counteroffer. For the response to have been a counteroffer rather than an acceptance, it would have had to expressly condition acceptance upon WidgeCo's assent to the additional term. 

\section{CONTRACTS}

\section{Answer to Question 15}

(C) A contract was formed for \$ 10,000$ because the oral modification is unenforceable under the Statute of Frauds. Under the U.C.C., a contract for the sale of goods priced at \$ 500$ or more is not enforceable unless evidenced by a writing. Furthermore, contract modifications must also meet the Statute of Frauds requirement if the contract as modified is within the Statute's provisions. Here, the Statute of Frauds is applicable to both the original contract and the contract as modified. Since the modification was not in writing, it is not enforceable; hence, the terms of the original contract, which satisfies Statute of Frauds requirements, are effective. (A) is wrong even though Tekmart did accept before October 31 and no additional consideration was needed for the oral modification. Because the Statute of Frauds is applicable to the modification, the $1 \%$ discount is not effective. (B) is wrong because the parol evidence rule is applicable only to oral expressions made prior to or contemporaneous with the written contract; parol evidence can be offered to show subsequent modifications of a written contract. Since the contract was created when Tekmart dispatched the letter (as discussed below), the agreement regarding the $1 \%$ discount is a subsequent modification and therefore unaffected by the parol evidence rule. (D) is incorrect because the mailbox rule is applicable to the facts here; the acceptance was effective on dispatch. If Tekmart had sent its rejection before its acceptance, the mailbox rule would not apply and the rejection would take effect because it arrived before the acceptance. However, since Tekmart sent its acceptance first and then its rejection, and Megabyte did not change its position in reliance on the rejection, the mailbox rule is applicable and the acceptance was effective when it was sent.

\section{Answer to Question 16}

(D) Tommy cannot enforce Dad's promise on either contractual or promissory estoppel grounds. An enforceable contract does not exist because there was no consideration for Dad's promise to send \$ 1,000$. Tommy, the promisee, incurred no legal detriment by either refraining from doing something that he had a legal right to do or doing something that he had no legal obligation to do, with such detriment being part of a bargained-for exchange with Dad. However, consideration is not necessary if the promisor should be estopped from not performing. A promise is enforceable to the extent necessary to prevent injustice if: (i) the promisor should reasonably expect to induce action or forbearance; (ii) of a definite and substantial character; and (iii) such action or forbearance is induced. Dad had previously sent Tommy money for his expenses, and promised to send him the money here at issue for the same purpose. Due to Dad's express disapproval of Gidget, Dad certainly did not promise to send the money expecting to induce Tommy to buy Gidget a ring. Dad cannot be estopped from refusing to perform a promise where the result would be to require him to pay for something that he not only was unaware would happen but also of which he expressly disapproved. Thus, Dad's promise is not enforceable under a theory of promissory estoppel. (A) is incorrect because, although Tommy relied on Dad's promise in entering into the contract to purchase the ring, the promise was only made with the expectation of Tommy's incurring normal living expenses. Thus, Tommy was not justified in relying on the promise for the purpose that he did, and promissory estoppel does not apply. (B) is incorrect because the term "intended beneficiary" refers to a person not a party to a contract who is intended to have rights conferred by that contract. Here, there was no contract between Dad and someone else, pursuant to which Tommy became entitled to the money. (C) is not as good an answer as (D). It is true that Dad's promise was a gift unsupported by consideration. However, if circumstances existed justifying the application of promissory estoppel, the promise would be enforceable even in the absence of consideration. Therefore, (C) is not as precise as (D). 

\section{Answer to Question 17}

(C) The court should rule that there was sufficient consideration in Ellen's promise since her agreement to use her best efforts to sell and promote Calvin's gowns will be implied. For a contract to be valid, consideration must exist on both sides; i.e., promises must be mutually obligatory. Here, Calvin has agreed to make Ellen his exclusive retail distributor, but Ellen's promise is less apparent-what is she obliged to do? The facts do not show any specific obligation. However, in a case where someone is to be the exclusive distributor, the court will imply a promise to use best efforts to sell the product. This implied promise is valid consideration both under the common law and the Uniform Commercial Code (applicable here because goods are involved). Thus, the contract between Ellen and Calvin includes an implied promise that Ellen will use her best efforts to promote and sell Calvin's gowns, and such a promise is valid consideration. (A) is wrong because merely placing an order for gowns would not cure the defect in the April 1 contract absent Ellen's implied promise, because Ellen still will not have promised to do anything under that contract (i.e., she is not bound to do anything referable to the April 1 contract); rather, all she has promised to do is to pay for the goods that she ordered, which is sufficient consideration only for the May 1 order, not for the entire contract. (B) is wrong because a merchant's firm offer must contain words promising to keep the offer open for a period of time, and here the contract explicitly states that it may be canceled at any time. (D) is wrong because as in (A), Calvin's act here is not necessarily referable to the April 1 contract; rather, it is important only as to the May 1 order; it does not settle the issue of whether there was an enforceable April 1 contract. 

$$
\text { . }
$$



\section{CRIMINAL LAW ANSWERS}

\section{Answer to Question 1}

(A) Dorothy is liable both for the attempted murder of Melissa and, under the doctrine of transferred intent, for the murder of Hank. To be guilty of murder, one must unlawfully kill another human being with malice aforethought, which is a term of art encompassing various states of mind, including intent to kill, and the absence of facts excusing the homicide or reducing it to voluntary manslaughter. Here, Dorothy had the intent to kill Melissa. Under the doctrine of transferred intent, this intent is transferred from Melissa to Hank, the actual victim of the murder. There are no facts here excusing the homicide or reducing it to voluntary manslaughter on the basis of adequate provocation. Modern courts might allow a jury to consider whether discovery of the love letters would arouse the intense passion required for the first element of the provocation test; however, the third element, an absence of sufficient time between the provocation and the killing for the passions of a reasonable person to have cooled, is disproved by the facts of the question. The act of killing, although done by Sammy, is attributable to Dorothy as the principal because she caused an innocent intermediary (Sammy) to accomplish the result. Hence, Dorothy is liable for the murder of Hank; (C) is therefore incorrect. At common law, the crime of attempted murder required both a specific intent by the actor to kill the victim and an act that puts the defendant in close proximity to completing the crime. The Model Penal Code and most state criminal codes modify the "proximity" test for the act requirement, instead requiring an act that constitutes a "substantial step" towards commission of the crime. Here, Dorothy had the intent to kill Melissa and intentionally gave the loaded gun to Sammy with instructions to point it at Melissa and pull the trigger. Under either of the tests used, her conduct satisfies the act requirement of attempt. Thus, Dorothy is also liable for the attempted murder of Melissa; (B) is therefore incorrect. (D) is incorrect because the same act and intent can constitute both an attempt as to one person and a completed crime as to another person. Although, if Sammy's aim had been better, Dorothy could not have been convicted of both attempted murder of Melissa and murder of Melissa, the attempt against Melissa and the murder of Hank are separate crimes because more than one victim is involved.

\section{Answer to Question 2}

(A) Howard can be convicted of murder. Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought, which may be (i) intent to kill, (ii) intent to inflict great bodily injury, (iii) reckless indifference to an unjustifiably high risk to human life, or (iv) intent to commit a felony. Intentional use of a deadly weapon authorizes a permissive inference of intent to kill. Here, Howard uttered statements of revenge, confronted Nick with a loaded gun, and intentionally shot him when he pulled out a knife-more than enough evidence for a jury to find that Howard had the malice aforethought necessary for murder. Furthermore, none of the issues raised in the other choices will suffice to excuse the killing or reduce it to voluntary manslaughter. (B) is wrong because Howard will not be able to meet all four tests for establishing the provocation necessary to reduce a killing from murder to voluntary manslaughter. Howard would have to offer evidence that (i) a provocation existed that would arouse sudden and intense passion in the mind of an ordinary person such as to cause him to lose his self-control, (ii) Howard was in fact provoked and lost his self-control, (iii) there was not sufficient time between the provocation and the killing for the passions of a reasonable person to cool, and (iv) Howard in fact did not cool off between the provocation and the killing. Howard can easily establish the first two elements, because discovery of one's spouse in bed with another person is virtually always considered adequate provocation by common law courts. However, the time interval between the provocation and the killing was probably sufficient for a reasonable person to cool off, and the facts 100. CRIMINAL LAW

strongly suggest that Howard did in fact cool off-.he consumed several drinks to build up his nerve before setting off for Nick's house, and he did not shoot Nick immediately when he confronted him. Thus, a jury would probably reject a claim of voluntary manslaughter here. (C) is incorrect because Howard's voluntary intoxication would not preclude a finding of intent for murder. Because Howard became intoxicated to build up his nerve to kill Nick, a court would probably find that his intent at the time he began drinking would apply to his later conduct. Furthermore, voluntary intoxication is no defense to crimes involving recklessness. Howard can still be liable for murder based on a state of mind of reckless indifference to human life-his conduct in becoming intoxicated and then confronting Nick with a loaded gun is sufficient to establish that state of mind. (D) is incorrect because the homicide will not be excused on selfdefense grounds. A person may use deadly force in self-defense only if (i) he is without fault, (ii) he is confronted with unlawful force, and (iii) he is threatened with imminent death or great bodily harm. Howard is not without fault, however, because he initiated the assault and prompted Nick to pull the knife. His status as the aggressor deprives him of the right to use force in his own defense under these circumstances.

\section{Answer to Question 3}

(B) The court should affirm Larry's conviction. Crimes imposing a mens rea of malice generally do not require the proof of intent that specific intent crimes require. It is sufficient if the defendant recklessly disregarded an obvious or high risk that the particular harmful result would occur. Here, the facts presented were sufficient to allow the jury to conclude that Larry knew of the probability that the ladder would collapse without the braces when someone climbed down it, and acted in reckless disregard of that risk by removing the braces. (A) is incorrect because the fact that Larry was committing larceny when he removed the braces does not establish malice for purposes of the malicious injury charge. Even if his conduct were otherwise legal, he could be liable for that charge if he acted with reckless disregard of the high risk of injury. (C) is wrong because, as discussed above, it is generally not necessary to show an intent to injure for a crime requiring a mens rea of malice; reckless disregard of an obvious risk will usually suffice. (D) is incorrect because crimes requiring a mens rea of malice do not refer to malice in the dictionary sense; a showing of ill will or hatred of the victim is not required.

\section{Answer to Question 4}

(A) Dana can be convicted of first degree murder for Victor's death. Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought. In the absence of facts excusing the homicide or reducing it to voluntary manslaughter, malice aforethought exists if the defendant has (i) intent to kill, (ii) intent to inflict great bodily injury, (iii) awareness of an unjustifiably high risk to human life, or (iv) intent to commit a felony (felony murder doctrine). In this case Dana clearly had the intent to kill Victor; her motive for doing so is irrelevant for establishing malice aforethought. It is also quite possible under the facts that Dana acted with premeditation and deliberation, making her potentially liable for first degree murder. "Deliberate" means that the defendant reflected on the crime in a cool and dispassionate manner. "Premeditated" means that such reflection actually was undertaken, but it need only be for a very brief period. Here, Dana could have reflected on the crime before she visited the hospital; the fact that she had a gun in her purse is circumstantial evidence of such reflection. Even if she did not make the decision to kill until moments before she pulled out the gun, she would still have been capable of premeditation and deliberation. (B) is therefore incorrect because it is not the most serious crime of which Dana can be convicted. (C) is incorrect because of the absence of facts establishing adequate provocation that would reduce an intentional killing from murder to voluntary manslaughter. Adequate provocation is most frequently recognized in cases of (i) being subjected to a serious battery or threat of deadly force, and (ii) discovering one's spouse in bed with another person. While modern courts have broadened somewhat the scope of what constitutes provocation, the law does not presently recognize feelings of mercy toward the victim as an adequate provocation. Thus, Dana can be convicted of murder for Victor's death. (This question is a good illustration of why you must always treat the defendant objectively in your analysis of Criminal Law questions.)

\section{Answer to Question 5}

(C) The fact that Andt was seeking to retrieve swim fins that belonged to him negates the requirement in burglary of entry with intent to commit a felony. At common law, a burglary is defined as a breaking and entry of the dwelling of another at nighttime with the intent of committing a felony therein. If Andt entered into the cabin believing that the swim fins were his and intending only to retrieve them, he did not enter with intent to commit a felony, since it is not a felony to recover your own property. (A) is incorrect because if the other elements of burglary were present, the fact that Andt did nothing in the cabin would be immaterial; the burglary would have been committed the moment he entered the cabin with the requisite intent. (B) is wrong for a similar reason. The fact that he did not commit a felony does not negate the prima facie case for burglary. (D) is wrong because the requirement of a breaking is satisfied as long as some degree of force is used to gain entry. Opening a closed door is sufficient for this element; there is no requirement that the door be locked.

\section{Answer to Question 6}

(C) Kuegler's conduct satisfies the mens rea of "malice" required for arson. At common law, arson was defined as the malicious burning of the dwelling of another. The mens rea required for arson is malice, which is broader than the intent required for specific intent crimes and has nothing to do with ill will or evil motive. The defendant need not have intended to burn down the building; it is sufficient if he intended a burning that creates an obvious fire hazard to the building. Here, Kuegler knew that the store had an automatic sprinkler system, and he was not motivated by an intent to burn down the building. Nevertheless, he intended to start a fire with reckless disregard of a high risk that it would cause damage to the building. The risk or hazard is not that the building will burn down, merely that damage to the structure from a burning will occur. The "burning" required for arson does not require significant damage to the building; a charring of the combustible material is sufficient. Here, the wall next to the barrel was charred. This satisfies the "burning" requirement. The common law requirement that the structure be a dwelling has been broadened by the statute in this question to include other buildings. Thus, Kuegler's conduct satisfies all of the elements of the crime of arson. (A) is incorrect because the mens rea for arson can be satisfied even in the absence of a specific intent to burn the building. He acted with the requisite intent-malice-by intentionally starting a fire that created a high risk that a burning of the structure would occur. (B) is incorrect because, as discussed above, all of the elements of the prima facie case for arson have been established; the charring of the wall next to the barrel satisfies the "burning" requirement. (D) is incorrect because there is no "felony arson" rule like the felony murder rule. It has no bearing on the prima facie case for arson that he started the fire while perpetrating another felony.

\section{Answer to Question 7}

(C) As indicated in the question above, Kuegler is guilty of the crime of arson. He is also guilty of attempted larceny. Common law larceny requires a taking and carrying away of the personal property of another by trespass with intent to permanently deprive the other of his interest in the 

\section{CRIMINAL LAW}

property. Here, Kuegler planned to take and carry away watches in the store's possession by trespass (i.e., without permission) and with the intent to permanently deprive the store of them. However, he cannot be convicted of a completed larceny because he never actually took the watches. (A) and (B) are therefore incorrect. At common law, the crime of attempted larceny required both a specific intent by the actor to commit a larceny and an act that put the defendant in close proximity to completing the crime. The Model Penal Code and most state criminal codes modify the "proximity" test for the act requirement, instead requiring an act that constitutes a "substantial step" towards commission of the crime. Here, Kuegler intended to do what he did in order to commit a larceny for which he had the requisite intent. Also, he was apprehended after he set a fire to distract the store security guards and while he was smashing the glass on the watch case. Together, these acts satisfy the act requirement for attempt liability regardless of which test is employed. Thus, Kuegler is liable for attempted larceny and arson, making choice (C) correct and choice (D) incorrect.

\section{Answer to Question 8}

(B) Dewey is least likely to be found guilty of an attempt crime because the act he committed is not a crime in the jurisdiction. The general rule is that a defendant cannot avoid liability for attempt on the basis that it would have been impossible to commit the completed crime. It applies to cases where the defendant's mistaken belief about the facts (i.e., factual impossibility) or about the legal relationships or circumstances prevents him from completing the crime that he intended to commit. However, it is still necessary that the result desired or intended by the defendant constitute a crime. Even if he otherwise has the kind of culpability required for the completed crime, his objective must be proscribed by law. If those things the defendant does or intends to do would not actually be a crime, this is legal impossibility and a defense. The defendant will not be guilty of an attempt even though he firmly believed that his goal was criminal. The facts in (B) indicate that Dewey thought he was committing statutory rape, but in fact the conduct he engaged in, and intended to engage in, was not proscribed by law. Thus, his conduct does not constitute an attempt to commit statutory rape. (A) is incorrect because Don's mistake about the legal status of the goods he fenced does not constitute a defense to attempt. The jewelry in the fact pattern in (A) has lost its status as "stolen" jewelry because it is being forwarded to Don with the owners' permission; it is therefore impossible for him to be liable for the completed crime of receipt of stolen goods. However, Don is guilty of attempted receipt of stolen goods because the legal status of the goods, unlike the existence or nonexistence of a law proscribing the conduct, is one of the attendant circumstances; this is treated like factual impossibility by most courts. By accepting the goods he believes to be stolen, Don has purposely engaged in conduct that would constitute receipt of stolen goods if the circumstances were as he believed them to be; hence, he is liable for attempted receipt of stolen goods. (C) is incorrect because Doreen has intentionally engaged in conduct that constitutes an attempt to conduct an illegal demonstration. The issue in this situation is mistake of law rather than impossibility. The general rule is that it is no defense to a crime that the defendant mistakenly believed that her acts were not prohibited by law. This is true even if her mistake was reasonable or was based upon advice of private counsel. Nor will mistake of law negate intent unless the mental state for a crime requires a certain belief concerning a collateral aspect of law, which is not the case here. There is no indication that the statute prohibiting illegal demonstrations requires knowledge that the demonstration is illegal. Had Doreen actually begun demonstrating in the building, she would have been liable for the completed crime simply because she had the intent to conduct the demonstration. Doreen is liable under the state's attempt statute because, acting with the intent to conduct a demonstration that would be illegal, she purposely attempted to bring her picket sign into the capitol building; this constituted an act in close proximity to completion of the crime. (D) is incorrect because Drew cannot defend on the ground that the completed crime was factually impossible to commit. The crime of theft by false pretenses requires that the defendant obtain title to the property of another by an intentional false statement of past or existing fact. This indicates that the false statement must be the cause of the victim passing title to the defendant (i.e., the victim must rely on the statement). Because Hartigan was just disguising himself as a homeowner as part of the sting operation, it would have been impossible for Drew to commit the completed offense. However, Drew had the intent to commit the crime and purposely did everything necessary to complete the crime had the facts been as he believed them to be. As a result, Drew is liable for attempted theft by false pretenses.

\section{Answer to Question 9}

(D) Jeffries could not be convicted of any of the listed combinations of crimes. (A) is incorrect because Jeffries did not have the mental state required to be an accomplice for attempted false pretenses. To be convicted as an accomplice under the prevailing common law rule, a person generally must have given aid, counsel, or encouragement with the intent to aid or encourage the principal in the commission of the crime charged. Under certain circumstances, knowledge that the crime will result from the aid provided will suffice for accomplice liability, but here Jeffries did not even know of Garth's plan to commit false pretenses. Thus, while Jeffries aided Garth's attempted false pretenses by procuring Mrs. Wealthy's key, he did not have the mental state to be liable as an accomplice for that crime. (B) is incorrect because the parties did not intend to achieve the same objective when they agreed to the theft of the key. Conspiracy requires three elements: (i) an agreement between two or more persons, (ii) an intent to enter into an agreement (which is often inferred from the act of agreement), and (iii) an intent to achieve the objective of the agreement. To establish the third element, a minimum of two persons must intend to achieve the same purpose; i.e., there must be a "meeting of guilty minds." Here, the only objective that Jeffries and Garth intended and agreed to achieve was the theft of the key. The parties neither expressly nor impliedly agreed to commit a burglary, and the fact that Garth used the key for a different purpose than Jeffries anticipated indicates that there was no "meeting of guilty minds." (C) is incorrect. As explained above, Jeffries did not conspire to commit burglary. The same analysis applies to the charge of conspiracy to commit false pretenses. There was no agreement between Jeffries and Garth as to that crime. Not only did Jeffries not intend to bring about the crime of false pretenses, he did not even have knowledge that he was facilitating that crime by supplying the key. The third crime in choice (C), larceny, presents a closer question. As discussed above, under certain circumstances, a party may be liable as an accomplice by giving aid with knowledge that the crime will result from the aid provided. While the sale of ordinary goods at ordinary prices knowing they will be used in a crime will not suffice, procuring an illegal item or selling at a higher price because of the buyer's purpose may constitute a sufficient "stake in the venture" for a court to find intent to aid. Here, if Garth had intended to use the key to commit larceny and Jeffries knew this, his theft of the key might suffice for accomplice liability. However, Jeffries did not "know" that Garth was going to use the key to commit larceny because Garth was not going to do so. The fact that Garth later decided to commit larceny is probably not adequate for Jeffries to be liable as an accomplice. In any event, the combination of larceny, conspiracy to commit burglary, and conspiracy to commit false pretenses is clearly incorrect. Thus, by a process of elimination, (D) is the correct answer.

\section{Answer to Question 10}

(A) The only additional common law crime that Garth could be convicted of is larceny. Common law larceny consists of (i) a taking (ii) and carrying away (iii) of tangible personal property 

\section{CRIMINAL LAW}

(iv) of another (v) by trespass (vi) with intent to permanently (or for an unreasonable time) deprive the person of an interest in the property. Garth has committed larceny of the statuette because he took it from Mrs. Wealthy's apartment by trespass (i.e., wrongfully) with the intent to permanently deprive her of it. (B) and (C) are incorrect because Garth has not committed burglary. The elements of burglary at common law are (i) a breaking (ii) and entry (iii) of the dwelling (iv) of another (v) at nighttime (vi) with the intent to commit a felony therein. While Garth had gained entry to Mrs. Wealthy's apartment with the intent to commit the felony of false pretenses, whether he committed a "breaking" is debatable. At common law, a breaking can be constructive if the defendant gains entry by means of fraud, threat, or intimidation. The fraud, however, is typically a misrepresentation of identity to trick the occupant into opening the door of the dwelling. Here, while Garth misrepresented how he had obtained the key, Mrs. Wealthy invited him in as a gesture of thanks; i.e., she was not tricked into opening her door to let him in. Even if Garth's conduct were sufficient for a constructive breaking, it also fails to satisfy the nighttime element. His entry into Mrs. Wealthy's apartment during the afternoon would not suffice for burglary at common law. (D) is incorrect because, as discussed in the answer to the previous question, there was no express or implied agreement between Garth and Jeffries to commit a burglary; hence, Garth cannot be liable for conspiracy to commit burglary.

\section{Answer to Question 11}

(A) If the jury believes Bulky's testimony, he did not have the intent for robbery. A robbery consists of (i) a taking (ii) of personal property of another, (iii) from the other's person or presence, (iv) by force or intimidation, (v) with the intent to permanently deprive him of it. Thus, robbery is basically an aggravated form of larceny in which the taking is accomplished by force or threats of force. If the jury believes Bulky's testimony that he was only trying to beg some bus money, his only intent was to accept money that Juan voluntarily gave him. Bulky did not have an intent to permanently deprive Juan of his interest in the property because Bulky believed that Juan was freely transferring his interest to Bulky. Thus, the jury should find him not guilty of robbery. (B) is incorrect because the defendant's intent, rather than the effect of his conduct, is the controlling factor. Without any other facts, Bulky's conduct was sufficiently intimidating that a jury could conclude that he had an intent to rob. If the jury believes Bulky's testimony, however, it should find that he did not have the intent necessary for robbery. (C) is incorrect because Bulky's testimony, if believed, would also negate the intent necessary for assault. Criminal assault is either (i) an attempt to commit a battery, or (ii) the intentional creation of a reasonable apprehension in the mind of the victim of imminent bodily harm. If Bulky had intended to create an apprehension of imminent bodily harm, he would be liable for robbery because he would have been using that apprehension to permanently deprive Juan of his property. However, assuming that Bulky was just trying to beg rather than rob, he will not be found to have intended to create the apprehension that he did. (D) is incorrect not only because Bulky's testimony disproves the requisite intent of either offense, but also because the assault would be a lesser included offense of the robbery under these circumstances. A lesser included offense is one that consists entirely of some (but not all) of the elements of the greater crime. Under the constitutional prohibition against double jeopardy, lesser included offenses "merge" into the greater offenses, in the sense that one may not be convicted of both the greater offense and a lesser included offense. Here, the robbery would be by intimidation: conduct by Bulky that was intended to create apprehension of imminent bodily harm in Juan's mind. This element of the robbery offense would be enough to establish liability for assault as well, but robbery has additional elements; hence, Bulky could not have been found guilty of both robbery and the lesser included offense of assault. 

\section{Answer to Question 12}

(D) Doofus's waiver of his Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination after receiving Miranda warnings applies to the subsequent questioning about another crime. Miranda $v$. Arizona (1966) requires that a person in custody be informed of his right to remain silent and his right to the presence of an attorney during questioning. A suspect may then waive his Miranda rights by answering an interrogator's questions as long as the waiver was knowing, voluntary, and intelligent. The suspect need not be informed of all potential subjects of an interrogation to effect a valid waiver. If the suspect has waived his rights, there is generally no need to repeat the warnings because of a break in the interrogation unless the time lapse has been so long that a failure to do so would seem like an attempt to take advantage of the suspect's ignorance of his rights. Here, Doofus was given his Miranda warnings and apparently made a knowing, voluntary, and intelligent waiver of his rights by agreeing to answer Smith's questions. The one-hour break for lunch does not invalidate the waiver, nor does the fact that the subsequent questioning involved a different crime. Hence, Doofus probably will fail to prevent the confession from being admitted at his trial. (A) is incorrect. If Doofus had asserted his Miranda rights during the initial questioning, any subsequent interrogation about a different crime would be invalid without a significant time lapse and a fresh set of warnings. However, because Doofus waived his Miranda rights during the initial interrogation, subsequent interrogation about a different crime does not require repetition of the warnings; the waiver applies to all potential subjects of an interrogation. (B) is incorrect because the custodial setting requires only that the police give defendant the Miranda warnings at the outset, which they did. The valid waiver that followed permits admissibility of the confession. (C) is incorrect because it is irrelevant what charge Doofus was in custody for. Unlike the offense-specific Sixth Amendment right to counsel, a detainee's rights under Miranda are not offense specific. Doofus was in custody because he was not free to leave; thus, any interrogation must satisfy the requirements of Miranda. If the police had not given him Miranda warnings before he was questioned on the first charge or if he had not validly waived his rights, any questioning regarding the second charge would have been improper.

\section{Answer to Question 13}

(D) The state's best argument is that, because Gordon was not a government agent, he need not have given Denise the Miranda warnings. As a means of protecting the Fifth Amendment privilege against compelled self-incrimination, a person must be informed prior to custodial interrogation that: (i) she has the right to remain silent; (ii) anything she says can be used against her in court; (iii) she has the right to the presence of an attorney; and (iv) if she cannot afford an attorney, one will be appointed for her if she so desires. These Miranda warnings must be given only if the detainee is being questioned by someone known to be working for the police. Here, Gordon is a private security guard employed by a private business (the grocery store). Thus, since Gordon was not required to inform Denise of the Miranda warnings, he could not possibly have violated Denise's Miranda rights. (A), (B), and (C) all reflect matters that would come into play only if Gordon were a government agent. However, they would also be incorrect even if Gordon were a government agent. (A) is incorrect because Gordon's statement might be deemed to be interrogatory. "Interrogation" refers not only to express questioning, but also to any words or actions on the part of the police that they should know are reasonably likely to elicit an incriminating response from the suspect. Although it is not an express question to say "You're too young to be a thief," such words are reasonably likely to bring forth some sort of incriminating response. Therefore, it is incorrect to state that Gordon's statement was not interrogatory. (B) is incorrect because, in a delinquency proceeding, a juvenile must be afforded the right not to testify, including all aspects of the privilege against self-incrimination. Miranda warnings are a very important 

\section{CRIMINAL LAW}

aspect of the privilege against self-incrimination. In addition, a juvenile court may determine that a child should be transferred to adult court for trial as an adult on criminal charges. Certainly, in such an instance, the requirement of Miranda warnings would be applicable. Consequently, regardless of whether a child is treated by the courts as a juvenile or an adult, it is incorrect to state that giving the Miranda warnings to juveniles is discretionary. (C) is incorrect because an actual arrest and formal charges are not a prerequisite to triggering the need for Miranda warnings. All that is required is that an interrogation be custodial in nature. An interrogation is considered custodial if the individual is not free to leave. Gordon grabbed Denise by the arm before making his statement. Thus, it could be argued that what followed was custodial interrogation, because Denise was not free to leave.

\section{Answer to Question 14}

(C) The cocaine is inadmissible because it is the product of an unconstitutional search of Nick. The Fourth Amendment prohibition against unreasonable searches and seizures applies to an investigatory detention and any type of search during the detention. Under Terry $v$. Ohio (1968), police have the authority to briefly detain a person for investigative purposes, even if they lack probable cause to arrest, as long as they have an articulable and reasonable suspicion of criminal activity. However, an investigatory detention does not create the right to search the person being detained. The officer may conduct a protective frisk (a patdown of the outer clothing) only if he reasonably believes that the person may be armed and presently dangerous. A full search of the person is only permitted if the detention establishes probable cause for a lawful arrest. In this case, Sam may have had sufficient grounds to detain Mike and Nick to ask them questions. Whether police have a reasonable suspicion-supported by articulable facts-of criminal activity is judged by the totality of the circumstances. [United States v. Sokolow (1989)] Here, the conduct of Mike and Nick may have made Sam reasonably suspicious that they were smuggling drugs. However, after finding nothing in his search of their luggage, and having no reason to believe that they were armed and presently dangerous, Sam had neither probable cause nor reasonable suspicion to either search or frisk Mike and Nick. Hence, under the exclusionary rule, the cocaine obtained as a result of the unlawful search of Nick is inadmissible against him. (A) is incorrect because there is no general emergency exception justifying searches without probable cause, and the search at issue here had none of the exigent circumstances that the Supreme Court has relied on in prior cases to permit warrantless searches (such as the hot pursuit of a fleeing felon or the evanescent nature of the evidence). (B) is incorrect because the scope of a search permitted by consent is limited by the scope of the consent. Nick's consent to the search of his luggage created no implication of a consent to a body search. (D) is incorrect because Sam had Mike and Nick's consent to search their luggage. Police may conduct a valid and warrantless search if they have a voluntary and intelligent consent to do so from the individual being searched; Mike and Nick's consent here satisfies these requirements.

\section{Answer to Question 15}

(D) Because Mike's Fourth Amendment rights were not violated by the unlawful search of Nick, the cocaine may be introduced against Mike at trial. Under Rakas v. Illinois (1978), Fourth Amendment rights may be enforced by the exclusion of evidence only at the instance of one whose own protection was infringed by the search and seizure. Ownership of the property seized does not automatically establish violation of one's reasonable expectation of privacy; it is just one factor in the totality of the circumstances that the court will consider. [Rawlings v. Kentucky (1980)] Here, the cocaine was seized from Nick as a result of a search that violated his Fourth Amendment rights. However, nothing in the question indicates that Mike had a legitimate expectation of privacy in Nick's body (such as the right to exclude others from searching Nick if Nick had consented). Under the circumstances in this case, Mike's ownership of the cocaine does not establish a reasonable expectation of privacy with regard to the search of Nick. (A) is incorrect because the fact that Mike did not have actual possession of the cocaine does not require that the cocaine be excluded from his trial. He may be liable under the jurisdiction's possession statute if he had sufficient dominion or control over the cocaine to be in constructive possession of it. (B) is incorrect even though it is a true statement. Sam's search of Mike violated Mike's reasonable expectation of privacy, but no evidence was obtained by the illegal search of Mike. Sam's search of Nick violated Nick's reasonable expectation of privacy but not Mike's expectation of privacy (as discussed above). Because Mike's Fourth Amendment rights were not violated by the search of Nick, he cannot use the exclusionary rule to suppress introduction of the cocaine. (C) is incorrect because the defendant has the right to testify and stipulate to facts at a preliminary hearing on a motion to suppress the evidence without his testimony or stipulation being admitted against him at trial on the issue of guilt. [Simmons v. United States (1968)] This rule allows a defendant to assert a possessory or ownership interest in illegally seized evidence just for purposes of invoking the exclusionary rule; if he fails to have the evidence excluded, he may still deny possession or ownership at trial.

\section{Answer to Question 16}

(D) Statement III. offers Simpson the only basis for vacating his guilty plea and sentence. In accordance with the contractual view of plea bargains, a defendant who agrees to a plea bargain has the right to have that bargain kept. If the prosecution does not keep the bargain, the court will decide whether the circumstances require specific performance of the plea agreement or whether the defendant should be granted an opportunity to withdraw his guilty plea. Here, Simpson agreed to testify against his co-defendants in exchange for the recommendation of probation. His co-defendants' decision to plead guilty rather than go to trial may have been influenced by the fact that Simpson had agreed to testify; hence, the fact that he did not testify at their trial does not allow the prosecution to avoid the terms of the plea bargain. (A) and (B) are wrong because the fact that the prosecution threatened to bring additional charges, as indicated in Statement I., is not a basis for claiming that a guilty plea was involuntary as long as there was some legal basis for bringing the additional charges. Consistent with the contract theory of plea negotiation, the State has the power to drive a hard bargain in reaching a plea agreement. (B) and (C) are wrong because Simpson's claim of innocence does not prevent the court from accepting his guilty plea, contrary to Statement II. Before accepting a guilty plea, the court must find that the plea was voluntary and intelligent. However, admission of guilt is not a constitutional requisite to imposition of a criminal penalty. When a defendant pleads guilty despite protesting his innocence, the plea may still be seen as an intelligent choice by the defendant, and withdrawal of the plea will not be permitted when there is other strong evidence of guilt in the record. Here, Simpson weighed the risks and benefits before pleading guilty, and the statements by his co-defendants provide other evidence of his guilt; thus, his claim of innocence is not a basis for attacking his guilty plea.

\section{Answer to Question 17}

(D) The state's best argument is that Chaven procured dismissal of the original trial on a technicality. The Fifth Amendment right to be free of double jeopardy for the same offense generally requires that, once jeopardy attaches in the first prosecution, the defendant may not be retried for the same offense. Under certain circumstances, however, a defendant can be retried even if jeopardy has 

\section{CRIMINAL LAW}

attached. One such circumstance is that a trial may be discontinued and the defendant reprosecuted for the same offense when the termination occurs at the behest of the defendant on any grounds not constituting an acquittal on the merits. Double jeopardy does not bar two trials, but only a retrial after a determination on the merits. Here, the municipal charge against Chaven was dismissed, and the trial terminated, at the request of Chaven on the basis of a technical error in the information. This was not an acquittal on the merits. Thus, there is no violation of the prohibition of double jeopardy presented by the current state prosecution of Chaven. Regarding (A), it is true that the constitutional prohibition against double jeopardy does not apply to trials by separate sovereigns. A person may be tried for the same conduct by both a state and the federal government, or by two states. However, a state and its municipalities are not deemed to be separate sovereigns. Thus, Chaven may not be tried for the same conduct by the city of Briggs and the state of Riverfront. (B) is incorrect. The fact that the state charge requires proof of a fact not required by the municipal charge does not satisfy the test for determining that the "same offense" is not involved for purposes of double jeopardy. At best, it indicates only that the municipal charge is a lesser included offense of the state charge. A lesser included offense is one that consists entirely of some, but not all, elements of a greater crime. Attachment of jeopardy for a lesser included offense usually bars retrial for the greater offense. Here, the municipal charge consists entirely of all the elements of the state charge, except for the element of intent to distribute the illegal narcotics. Therefore, the municipal charge is a lesser included offense of the state charge. This fact would, if anything, provide an argument in support of the position that the trial in state court constitutes double jeopardy. Thus, (B) does not present an argument against granting the motion filed on behalf of Chaven. (C) is incorrect because it misstates the point at which jeopardy attaches. Jeopardy attaches in a jury trial at the impaneling and swearing of the jury, and in a bench trial when the first witness is sworn. This question deals with a jury trial, and we are told that the jury has been sworn, selected, and impaneled. Thus, jeopardy has attached, despite the fact that no witness has been sworn. 

\section{EVIDENCE ANSWERS}

\section{Answer to Question 1}

(A) Father White's testimony as to Dassent's responsible nature is admissible as circumstantial evidence that he was not driving the hit-and-run vehicle. The accused in a criminal case can introduce evidence of his good character to show his innocence of the alleged crime. Federal Rule 405 allows the defendant to call a qualified witness to testify as to his personal opinion concerning a trait of the defendant that is involved in the case. In this case, whether Dassent was the driver of the hit-and-run vehicle is a critical issue in the case; thus, testimony that Dassent is a responsible person who would not leave the scene of an accident pertains to a relevant character trait. Father White, having known Dassent for 12 years, is qualified to give his personal opinion as to Dassent's character. The court should therefore permit White to testify. (B) is incorrect because Father White's testimony is character evidence rather than habit evidence. Both habit evidence and character evidence are admissible to show how a person probably acted on a particular occasion. However, habit evidence describes one's regular response to a specific set of circumstances, while character evidence describes one's disposition in respect to general traits. Here, there is no specific repeated situation that Dassent regularly responded to (such as regularly failing to stop at a certain stop sign). Rather, it is Dassent's general trait of responsibility that is being offered as evidence. (C) is incorrect because Father White's testimony is admissible as relevant character evidence. As a general rule, a party may not bolster the testimony of his witness until the witness has been impeached. Here, even though Father White's testimony bolsters Dassent's unimpeached testimony that he did not drive the hit-and-run vehicle, it is independently admissible as character evidence that supports Dassent's case. The fact that Dassent is testifying in his own defense when Father White is called to support him does not make Father White's testimony inadmissible. (D) is incorrect because it reverses the rule. In a criminal case, the defense does not need to have the prosecution put defendant's character in issue before the defense can rebut it; the defense can initiate evidence of the defendant's character. On the other hand, the prosecution cannot make an issue of defendant's character until the defendant has elected to put his character in issue.

\section{Answer to Question 2}

(B) Testimony of Devlin's reputation as a violent person is admissible to rebut the defendant's character evidence. The general rule is that the prosecution cannot initiate evidence of the bad character of the defendant merely to show that he is more likely to have committed the crime of which he is accused. However, if the defendant puts his character in issue by having a character witness testify as to his opinion of the defendant, the prosecution may rebut with evidence of the defendant's bad character. One means of rebutting defendant's character evidence is by calling qualified witnesses to testify to the defendant's bad reputation for the particular trait involved in the case. Here, Devlin put his character in issue by having Westin testify to Devlin's nonviolent nature, which is relevant to whether he committed the crime charged. The prosecution, assuming that it can show that the police officer has knowledge of Devlin's reputation in the community, can have the officer testify that Devlin had a reputation as a violent person. (A) is incorrect because Westin's credibility cannot be attacked by extrinsic evidence of specific instances of misconduct. While any matter that tends to prove or disprove the credibility of a witness is relevant for purposes of impeachment, extrinsic evidence of the witness's bad acts is not permitted to attack the witness's character for truthfulness. Unless the misconduct was the basis for a criminal conviction, for which a record of the judgment may be offered, bad acts may only be inquired about during cross-examination. Thus, a neighbor's testimony of Westin's specific instances of misconduct would not be admissible. (C) is incorrect. While Devlin has "opened the 

\section{EVIDENCE}

door" to evidence of his bad character by presenting testimony of his good character, the evidence must pertain to the particular trait involved in the case. Here, the defendant's capacity for violence has been placed in issue by defendant, but his reputation for truthfulness is not relevant to whether he has committed the crime for which he is charged. (And because Devlin has not placed his credibility in issue by taking the stand as a witness, his reputation for truthfulness cannot be offered for impeachment purposes.) (D) is incorrect because the basic rule is that when a person is charged with one crime, extrinsic evidence of his other crimes or misconduct is inadmissible if offered solely to establish a criminal disposition, regardless of whether defendant has placed his character in issue. [Fed. R. Evid. 404(b)] While evidence of other crimes is admissible if it is independently relevant to some other issue (e.g., motive, intent, or identity), Devlin's battery conviction in this case appears to have no relevance other than as evidence of his violent disposition. It is therefore inadmissible.

\section{Answer to Question 3}

(C) The testimony of Wally is character evidence; i.e., it describes Don's general behavior patterns. Evidence of character to prove the conduct of a person in the litigated event is generally not admissible in a civil case. Here, Perry is trying to employ the circumstantial use of prior behavior patterns to draw the inference that Don drove at an excessive rate of speed at the time of the incident here at issue. Such a use of character evidence is not permitted. (A) is incorrect because character is not in issue. An exception to the general prohibition of character evidence is that, when a person's character itself is one of the issues in the case, character evidence is admissible. Don's character as a driver is not in issue; rather, his actions at a specific time and place are in issue. Thus, this exception does not apply to these facts. Regarding (B), it is true that character may be established by reputation evidence under the Federal Rules. However, as explained above, this is not a proper case for the use of character evidence. Therefore, (B) is incorrect. (D) is also incorrect. While it is true that testimony as to a person's reputation in the community may in some sense be considered hearsay (i.e., such testimony reflects what people are saying about a person), reputation testimony is a permissible (and in fact, the most common) means of showing character. Thus, (D) does not present a basis for refusing to allow the testimony.

\section{Answer to Question 4}

(A) The statement by Doug, who is one of the parties to the action, is admissible as an admission of a party-opponent. Federal Rule $801(\mathrm{~d})(2)$ provides that a statement offered against a party that is the party's own statement is not hearsay and therefore cannot be excluded by the rule against hearsay. Assuming that it is relevant and not barred by other rules, the statement is admissible. Here, Doug's statement is being offered against him at trial. It is relevant because it can be interpreted as a prior acknowledgment by Doug that he was not totally blameless in the accident, which is undoubtedly inconsistent with his contentions at trial. The statement does not violate Federal Rule 408, which makes offers to compromise a disputed claim inadmissible to prove liability for the claim, because it was made by Doug before Peter made any claim; i.e., there was not yet an actual dispute between the parties. Nor does the statement violate Rule 411 , which bars evidence that a person has liability insurance when offered to show fault or ability to pay, because Doug's reference to his insurance was an intrinsic part of his admission and could not be readily severed from it. No other rules barring relevant evidence apply, so the statement should be admitted. (B) is incorrect because the statement against interest exception to the hearsay rule [Fed. R. Evid. 804(b)(3)] requires the declarant to be unavailable as a witness, which is not indicated here. More importantly, whenever the statement being offered is by a party, it will almost always be admissible as an admission of a party-opponent even though it does not qualify as a statement against interest, because an admission has none of the restrictions that a statement against interest has. (C) is wrong because, as previously noted, Doug's statement was made before the existence of a disputed claim between the parties. The public policy rationale for Rule 408 , which is to encourage settlement of disputes without litigation, does not come into play until litigation is at least threatened. (D) is incorrect because the statement is an admission by a party, which is treated as nonhearsay under the Federal Rules.

\section{Answer to Question 5}

(D) The prosecutor's question was a proper means of impeaching Wendt's credibility. A witness may be impeached through cross-examination by evidence that he is biased or has an interest in the outcome of the case; i.e., evidence that shows that he has a motive to lie. Since Wendt has been indicted for the same armed robbery, it clearly helps his case for him to provide an alibi for both of them. Furthermore, if Wendt were to testify that he and Doobad committed the robbery, his testimony could be used against him at his own trial as an admission. Thus, Wendt has a motive to lie and may be impeached by being asked on cross-examination about the facts that show bias, as the prosecutor did here. (A) is incorrect because the prosecutor is impeaching Wendt on the basis of bias, not on the basis of poor character for truthfulness. For the latter basis of impeachment, Federal Rule 609 requires a criminal conviction rather than just an indictment (unless it was for a crime probative of truthfulness, such as perjury, which could be the subject of crossexamination under Rule 608(b) even if there has not yet been a conviction). Thus, Wendt could not be impeached by being asked about an indictment (and (A) would then be the correct choice) if Wendt had been under indictment for a robbery other than the same robbery for which Doobad is being tried (since it would not show a motive to lie for Doobad). (B) misstates the law. A witness may be impeached by interrogating him as to specific acts of misconduct that may affect his character and show him to be unworthy of belief. [See Fed. R. Evid. 608(b)] (C) is incorrect because evidence is never admissible to show a person's criminal propensities. For impeachment purposes, the prosecution wants to attack the witness's credibility rather than his criminal propensity. The indictment, as opposed to the crime charged in the indictment, generally shows nothing with respect to the witness's character for truthfulness. Thus, to impeach this witness on a ground other than bias, the prosecutor would ask about the robbery itself, not the indictment.

\section{Answer to Question 6}

(C) The question is a proper means of impeaching Weiner's character for truthfulness through specific instances of misconduct. Under Federal Rule 608(b), subject to the discretion of the trial judge, a witness may be interrogated on cross-examination with respect to any specific act that may impeach his character and show him to be unworthy of belief, as long as the act is probative of truthfulness (i.e., an act of deceit or lying). A conviction of a crime is not necessary under this rule. Cheating on one's taxes is lying, so this would be a specific act of misconduct reflecting on Weiner's character for truthfulness. The objection should be overruled. (A) is incorrect. Any matter that tends to prove or disprove the credibility of a witness is relevant because it affects the weight that the trier of fact should give to his testimony. $(\mathrm{B})$ is incorrect because Weiner is not being impeached by collateral extrinsic evidence (which is not permitted by Rule 608(b)); he is only being interrogated on cross-examination. (D) is incorrect because it states a requirement for impeachment by a prior conviction under Federal Rule 609 , rather than by prior bad acts under Rule 608(b), which does not require that the conduct constitute a felony. Rule 609 is inapplicable because it requires a criminal conviction, and Weiner has never even been charged with tax evasion. 

\section{EVIDENCE}

\section{Answer to Question 7}

(C) Evidence of Dunbad's purchases of insurance on Victa's life shortly before her death is admissible because it has a tendency to make Dunbad's murder of Victa more probable than it would be without the evidence. As a general rule, all relevant evidence is admissible if offered in an unobjectionable form or manner, as is the case here. This evidence is relevant because it establishes a motive for the murder, and facts showing motive for doing an act are circumstantial evidence that the act was done. Because there are no other grounds for excluding the evidence, it should be admitted. (A) is incorrect because exclusion of evidence on the ground of prejudice is a matter within the trial judge's broad discretion, and Federal Rule 403 requires that the evidence's probative value be substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice for it to be excluded. While all evidence is prejudicial to the adverse party, "unfair" prejudice refers to evidence that suggests a decision on an emotional or otherwise improper basis; evidence of the purchase of life insurance policies does not fall within this category. (B) is incorrect because it misapplies the rule excluding evidence of insurance. Federal Rule 411 excludes evidence of liability insurance on the issue of whether a person acted negligently or wrongfully. Evidence of insurance coverage (particularly where it is life insurance on the life of a homicide victim) is relevant and admissible for other purposes. (D) is incorrect for two reasons: First, the purchase of insurance does not establish a criminal disposition or a propensity to do criminal acts. Second, evidence of conduct offered to show criminal propensity is inadmissible character evidence under Federal Rule 404. Thus, if the evidence were offered to show criminal propensity, the objection should be sustained, not overruled. On the other hand, evidence of prior conduct (or misconduct) is specifically admissible under Rule 404(b) to show the defendant's motive, which is what the insurance evidence is intended to show.

\section{Answer to Question 8}

(D) Birch's former testimony should be admissible. Under Federal Rule 804(b)(1), the testimony of a now unavailable witness given at another hearing under oath is admissible in a subsequent trial as long as there is a sufficient similarity of parties and issues so that the opportunity to develop testimony or cross-examine at the prior hearing was meaningful. In criminal cases, the accused or his attorney must have been present and have had the opportunity to cross-examine at the time the testimony was given. Here, Birch's testimony was given against Dogwood at a prosecution for the same conduct that constituted the felony murder offense for which Dogwood is now being prosecuted, and Dogwood had the same motive to challenge Birch's identification of him then as he does now. Hence, the testimony can be admitted under the former testimony exception to the hearsay rule. (A) is wrong because it is not essential, even in criminal cases, that the trials be on the same charge. The exception is satisfied as long as the subject matter is sufficiently similar that the defendant had an opportunity and similar motive to develop the declarant's testimony at the prior hearing. (B) is incorrect because the Supreme Court has rejected a Confrontation Clause challenge to the use of former testimony. As long as the defendant had the opportunity to crossexamine at the prior hearing and the witness is truly unavailable, the testimony is admissible. (C) is incorrect because it refers to prior statements of identification by a witness at the present trial. This case involves the hearsay exception for former testimony, which requires that the witness now be unavailable.

\section{Answer to Question 9}

(B) The question of the existence or nonexistence of preliminary facts other than those of conditional relevance is to be determined by the court. All preliminary fact questions involving the standards of trustworthiness of alleged exceptions to the hearsay rule are to be determined by the court. Thus, the court, not the jury, must decide whether a purported business record was made in the regular course of business. In the case at bar, the question to be decided is whether or not the "synopsis of sales" was in fact made during the regular course of business. Thus, this issue must be decided by the judge. During the hearing at which the judge makes the preliminary fact determination, both parties must be given an opportunity to present evidence with regard to the fact to be determined. Also, it is within the judge's discretion whether the jury should be excused during the preliminary fact determination. (B) is correct because it calls for the determination as to whether the document is a business record to be made by the judge, it allows for the presentation of evidence by both sides, and holding the hearing in the presence of the jury is within the judge's discretion. (A) is incorrect because it indicates that the hearing must be conducted outside the presence of the jury. (C) incorrectly calls for the jury to decide the issue. There is no question here of conditional relevance. The question is one of competency of the evidence. Therefore, this is not the type of preliminary fact to be decided by the jury. (D) also reaches the incorrect conclusion that the jury has the ultimate decision on this matter. Only the judge may decide whether the document in question qualifies as a business record. Once the decision has been made, this issue cannot be further pursued to the jury.

\section{Answer to Question 10}

(D) Schrinkov should not be allowed to testify because Willie's credibility has not been impeached. Evidence of a witness's character is admissible only after the witness's character for truthfulness has been attacked. [Fed. R. Evid. 608(a)] Dr. Schrinkov's testimony would have been admissible if Willie's veracity had been attacked on cross-examination, but here the defense did not crossexamine Willie. (A) is incorrect because the rule for reinforcing a witness's veracity differs from the rule for challenging it. A party may put witnesses on the stand to bolster another witness's credibility only when the witness's credibility has been attacked. (B) is wrong because there is no indication that Willie's ability to testify is in issue or that his testimony may confuse the jury. Federal Rule 702 provides that expert testimony is admissible if the subject matter is one where scientific, technical, or other specialized knowledge would assist the trier of fact in understanding the evidence or determining a fact in issue, and Rule 703 permits an expert's opinion to be based on observations made at trial. However, evaluating the reliability of an eyewitness's identification is traditionally within the province of the jury. Since the court has determined that Willie is competent to testify, the jury has the ability to decide on its own what weight to give his testimony. $(\mathrm{C})$ is incorrect because it is too broad. While courts generally allow a jury to evaluate a witness's veracity on its own, expert testimony would be allowed if Willie's credibility had been attacked on cross-examination or by other witnesses on the ground that he was too young to testify truthfully. Since this is an area where an expert's specialized knowledge would help the jury in evaluating Willie's testimony, Dr. Schrinkov probably would have been allowed to testify.

\section{Answer to Question 11}

(D) Lorca's comparison of the letters is not a proper basis for authenticating Wilson's letter. Before a writing may be received into evidence, the writing must be authenticated by proof showing that the writing is what the proponent claims it is. The Federal Rules list several examples of proper methods of authentication through evidence of the genuineness of the handwriting of a letter writer. None of them, however, would permit an in-court comparison by Lorca of the WilsonLorca letter with another letter established to be Wilson's. Under Federal Rule of Evidence 901(b), an expert witness or the trier of fact can determine the genuineness of a writing by comparing the questioned writing with another writing proved to be genuine. Thus, choice (C) 

\section{EVIDENCE}

would be a proper basis for admitting Wilson's letter, because the jury, as the trier of fact, can compare the Wilson-Lorca letter with another letter that Wilson has admitted writing. Lorca, however, cannot undertake that comparison because he is not an expert witness. While Rule 901 does not limit the methods of authentication, the rule governing opinion testimony by lay witnesses [Fed. R. Evid. 701] would preclude Lorca's in-court comparison. To be admissible, opinion testimony by lay witnesses must be (i) rationally based on the perception of the witness; (ii) helpful to a clear understanding of his testimony or to determination of a fact in issue; and (iii) not based on scientific, technical, or other specialized knowledge. Here, Lorca can add nothing to the jury's determination of the authenticity of the letter because the jury can compare for itself that letter with a letter Wilson has admitted writing. Because Lorca's in-court comparison would not be helpful to the jury here, it would not be a proper basis for authenticating Wilson's letter. (A) is incorrect because a lay witness who has personal knowledge of the handwriting of the supposed writer may state her opinion as to whether the document is in that person's handwriting. Therefore, Wilson's wife could properly authenticate the letter by testifying that she recognizes his handwriting. (B) is incorrect because Lorca's testimony is proper circumstantial evidence of authentication under the reply letter doctrine. Under this doctrine, a letter may be authenticated by evidence that it was written in response to a communication sent to the claimed author. The content of the letter must make it unlikely that it was written by anyone other than the claimed author of the writing. Here, Wilson's letter to Lorca can be properly authenticated by Lorca's testimony that it was a reply to a letter that he sent to Wilson.

\section{Answer to Question 12}

(B) Warren's testimony is admissible under the present state of mind exception to the hearsay rule. Under Rule 803(3), a statement of a declarant's then-existing state of mind is admissible as circumstantial evidence tending to show that the intent was carried out. [See Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Hillmon (1892)] Here, Vanessa's statement to Warren is being offered to show that she probably went to the store where Trent was working that night, which is a material issue in the case. (A) is incorrect because the hearsay exception for present sense impressions applies to statements describing or explaining an event made while the declarant was perceiving the event, or immediately thereafter. Here, Vanessa's statement concerned her intent to do something, not an event that she was perceiving. (C) is incorrect because the hearsay exception for present state of mind does not require that the declarant be unavailable to testify. Unavailability is only required for (i) former testimony, (ii) statements against interest, (iii) dying declarations, and (iv) statements of personal and family history. (D) is wrong because Vanessa's statement is admissible under the state of mind exception even though her state of mind is not directly in issue. Her state of mind or intent needs to be established before the inference can be drawn that she acted on that intent by going to see Trent.

\section{Answer to Question 13}

(B) Phil's testimony is admissible as a statement of past physical condition. As an exception to the hearsay rule, the Federal Rules admit statements of past physical condition if made to medical personnel to assist in diagnosing or treating the condition. [Fed. R. Evid. 803(4)] Here, proper treatment by Phil of Violet's injuries required disclosure of the nature and duration of such injuries. Thus, Violet's statement as to having been beaten, and the time span involving the beatings, is pertinent to her diagnosis and treatment. Rule 803(4) also allows statements of the cause or source of the conditions insofar as reasonably pertinent to diagnosis or treatment. In cases of domestic child abuse, courts have held that the identity of the attacker is pertinent for purposes of physical and psychological treatment. Here, Violet's statement that her mother's livein boyfriend was her assailant would qualify under this rule. Consequently, Phil's testimony as to Violet's statement is admissible under this exception to the hearsay rule. (A) is incorrect because the federal courts do not recognize any physician-patient privilege unless they are applying the law of a state recognizing the privilege, and here Darryl is being sued under a federal statute. Hence, no one would have to waive the privilege for Phil to testify. (C) is incorrect because, as explained above, statements as to the cause of a condition, including the identity of the assailant under the circumstances in this case, are admissible under this hearsay exception. (D) is incorrect. Unlike the hearsay exception for statements of family history, the exception for statements of past physical condition does not require that the declarant be unavailable.

\section{Answer to Question 14}

(B) Julio's testimony is being offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted and is thus inadmissible hearsay. Hearsay is a statement, other than one made by the declarant while testifying at the trial or hearing, offered in evidence to prove the truth of the matter asserted. [Fed. R. Evid. 801(c)] Julio is attempting to testify to an out-of-court statement made by himself. This statement is being offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted in the statement (that the tanks overheated), because Julio is seeking to prove that overheating of the tanks caused the fire. Therefore, the statement comes within the definition of hearsay. Because no exception to the hearsay rule is applicable, testimony as to the statement is not admissible. It is true, as (C) states, that Julio's testimony is evidence of a fact in issue. However, $(\mathrm{C})$ is incorrect because such evidence, as hearsay, is inadmissible. While Julio can testify as to his present recollection that the tanks overheated, he cannot use a prior out-of-court statement on that issue because the adverse party cannot effectively cross-examine the witness-declarant as to perception, memory, etc., at the time the statement was made. This is the main reason for the rule excluding hearsay. (A) is incorrect because a lack of other evidence about overheating of the tanks would not render admissible this otherwise inadmissible evidence. (D) is incorrect because Julio's testimony is offered to prove its truth, not as a verbal act. When an out-of-court statement is introduced for any purpose other than to prove the truth of the matter asserted in the statement, the statement is not hearsay. An example of such a statement is a verbal act (or legally operative fact), which is an utterance to which the law attaches legal significance. Evidence of such a statement is not hearsay because the issue is whether or not the statement was made. For instance, in an action on a contract, words that constitute the offer or acceptance are not hearsay, because they are offered only to prove what was said, and not that it was true. Here, Julio's out-of-court statement is not being offered simply to prove that it was made. Rather, the statement is offered to prove that its contents are true; i.e., that the tanks overheated. Thus, the testimony is not evidence of a verbal act.

\section{Answer to Question 15}

(A) Frogman's testimony should be admissible because it is relevant nonhearsay based on firsthand knowledge. The testimony is relevant to Gray's age discrimination suit because it is being offered to prove that the Board's motivation in firing Gray was his age. It is not hearsay, even though Frogman is repeating the statement of an out-of-court declarant (Cobb), because it is not being offered to prove the truth of what Cobb was asserting (i.e., that Gray was in fact too old to fit the corporate image). Rather, it is being offered to show its effect on the Board; i.e., it is being offered as circumstantial evidence of the Board's motivation in deciding to fire Gray, which is the critical issue in the case. Finally, Frogman is competent to testify to Cobb's statement since he heard it firsthand, and no other restrictions on the admissibility of relevant evidence are applicable in this case. (B) is incorrect because, as discussed above, the testimony as to Cobb's statement is not hearsay because it is not being offered to prove the truth of that statement. Even if it 

\section{EVIDENCE}

were being offered to prove its truth, it would not be hearsay under the Federal Rules because it qualifies as a vicarious admission by a party-opponent. [Fed. R. Evid. 801(d)(2)(D)] Cobb made the statement in his capacity as chairman of the board of Macho; hence, it will be admissible against Macho as an admission. (C) and (D) are incorrect because the best evidence rule applies only when the writing or recording is a legally operative or dispositive instrument or the knowledge of the witness comes from reading the document or listening to the recording. The best evidence rule does not apply where, as here, the fact to be proved exists independently of any writing or recording, and the witness testifying to the fact (Frogman) has knowledge of the fact independent of the audiotape or the transcription.

\section{Answer to Question 16}

(C) The barograph record is admissible only if it is properly authenticated. Before a writing or any secondary evidence of its content may be received in evidence, the writing must be authenticated by proof showing that the writing is what the proponent says it is. In general, a writing may be authenticated by any evidence that serves to establish its authenticity. One means of authentication under Federal Rule $901(\mathrm{~b})$ is by evidence describing a process or system used to produce a result and showing that the process or system produces an accurate result. Hence, for Akiro's barograph record to be admissible, evidence must be offered that the instrument is accurate and that it was in good working order when the record was produced. (A) is incorrect because past recollection recorded is inapplicable here. Past recollection recorded is an exception to the hearsay rule that applies when a witness testifying about an event has insufficient recollection of it, even after consulting a writing of the event. The writing itself may be read into evidence if a proper foundation has been laid for its admissibility. Here, no witness is testifying-the barograph record is being offered independent of any testimony. (B) is wrong because the hearsay exception for records of regularly conducted activity applies only to records made in the regular course of a business. Although "business" is defined broadly under the Federal Rules to include churches and other not-for-profit organizations, it does not include what Akiro does for a hobby in his backyard. Hence, that hearsay exception is inapplicable. (D) is incorrect because the barograph record is not hearsay. Under the Federal Rules, hearsay is "a statement, other than one made by the declarant while testifying at the trial or hearing, offered in evidence to prove the truth of the matter asserted." A "statement" under the Federal Rules is an oral or written assertion or nonverbal conduct by a person intended as an assertion. A machine such as the barograph is not making or intending to make an assertion when it creates a record of an event; hence, the record is not a "statement" for purposes of the hearsay rule.

\section{Answer to Question 17}

(A) Walter's testimony is admissible only to challenge the credibility of Bob's earlier inconsistent statement. Because the credibility of a hearsay declarant is as much at issue as the credibility of an in-court witness, Federal Rule 806 allows statements of a hearsay declarant to be impeached to the same extent as those of an in-court witness. Thus, a statement of the declarant made at any time that is inconsistent with his hearsay statement may be offered into evidence for impeachment purposes. Here, Bob's hearsay statement (which was admissible as an excited utterance) was testified to by Wilma. Bob's subsequent statement to Walter is inconsistent with his hearsay statement and is therefore admissible to discredit that statement. (B) is wrong because the statement would be hearsay not within any exception if it were offered as substantive evidence. Under Federal Rule 801(d)(1), prior inconsistent statements are only admissible as substantive evidence when they are statements of a witness who is now testifying at trial and were made under oath at a prior trial or deposition. (C) is wrong because the general requirement that an impeached witness be given an opportunity to explain or deny an apparently inconsistent statement does not apply to hearsay declarants. Because hearsay statements are often admissible at trial after the declarant has died or is otherwise unavailable, Rule 806 provides that the declarant need not be given an opportunity to explain or deny statements that are inconsistent with the declarant's hearsay statement. (D) is wrong because the statement is admissible for the purpose of impeachment; hence, it does not fall within the definition of hearsay. 

$$
\text { \$ }
$$





\section{REAL PROPERTY ANSWERS}

\section{Answer to Question 1}

(B) Magnolia has a life estate pur autre vie and can be compelled to pay the property taxes. A life estate is an estate that is not terminable at any fixed or computable period of time, but cannot last longer than the life of a particular person. A life estate pur autre vie (for the life of another) is a life estate measured by the life of someone other than the life tenant. Such an estate will be created when the grantor conveys a life estate to $\mathrm{A}$ and $\mathrm{A}$ later conveys his interest to $\mathrm{B}$. $\mathrm{B}$ owns an estate measured by A's life; it ends when A dies. Here, Nelson received a life estate in Redacre because the property would go to Dora on Nelson's death. When Nelson conveyed "his interest" to Magnolia, she received a life estate only for the period of Nelson's life. Under the doctrine of waste, the holder of a life estate is entitled to all the ordinary uses and profits of the land, but she cannot lawfully do any act that would injure the interests of the person who owns the remainder. If she does, the future interest holder may sue for damages and/or to enjoin such acts. Permissive waste occurs when the life tenant fails to take reasonable measures to protect the land, such as paying property taxes that are due. A life tenant is obligated to pay all ordinary taxes on the land to the extent of its reasonable value. Thus, Magnolia is obligated to pay property taxes for her period of occupancy. Dora holds a remainder interest in Redacre because she will acquire it when Nelson dies; therefore, she can protect her interest by compelling Magnolia to pay the taxes. (A) is incorrect because Magnolia only received the interest that Nelson had, which was an estate for his life. He did not have the power to convey a life estate for the period of Magnolia's life. (C) is wrong because, as discussed above, a life tenant has a duty to pay such taxes. (D) is incorrect because there was nothing in Orville's conveyance of the life estate to Nelson that prevented him from conveying his interest to another. Despite the general rule against restraints on alienation of property interests, a restraint on the transfer of a life estate that causes it to be forfeited if a transfer is attempted is a valid restraint on alienation. However, any such restraint must be specified in the conveyance itself. Here, no restraint on alienation existed in the conveyance to Nelson; thus, he was free to convey his interest to Magnolia.

\section{Answer to Question 2}

(D) Suzanne takes a life estate pursuant to Hiram's will as the eldest grandchild living at Horace's death, but the remainder to Hiram's great-grandchildren is void because it violates the Rule Against Perpetuities. The Rule Against Perpetuities requires that an interest in property, to be valid, must vest, if at all, not later than 21 years after some life in being at the creation of the interest. In the case of a will, the perpetuities period begins to run on the date of the testator's death, and measuring lives used to show the validity of an interest must be in existence at that time. An interest that violates the Rule is void and is stricken. However, all other interests created in the instrument of transfer that are valid under the Rule are given effect. Here, at the time the interests are created (Hiram's death), Horace's life estate vests immediately. The next life estate (to the eldest grandchild living at Horace's death) will vest, if at all, upon the death of Horace, a life in being at the creation of the interest. Thus, the life estate to such eldest grandchild (which turned out to be Suzanne) is valid under the Rule. However, the gift to Hiram's great-grandchildren may not vest within a life in being plus 21 years. A grandchild born after Hiram's death (who is therefore not a life in being) may survive Horace as the eldest grandchild of Hiram, and may live for 21 years after Horace's death. In that event, the gift over to the great-grandchildren would vest outside of lives in being plus 21 years. It does not matter that the grandchild who actually survived Horace as the eldest, Suzanne, was alive at Hiram's death (and therefore a life in being). The interest is void because there is a possibility, viewed at the time the interest is created, that it 

\section{REAL PROPERTY}

will not vest within the period under the Rule. Therefore, the attempted gift of a remainder to the great-grandchildren is void under the Rule, and is stricken. The failure of this gift leaves a reversion in the testator, Hiram, which will pass to his heirs. (A) is incorrect because it ignores the fact that, despite the invalidity of the attempted gift to Hiram's great-grandchildren, Suzanne's life estate remains valid and takes effect. (B) incorrectly states that title goes to the four grandchildren living at Hiram's death. According to Hiram's will, the only interest to be given to any grandchild was a life estate, to be given to the eldest grandchild living at Horace's death. Thus, of the four grandchildren listed in (B), only Suzanne (as the eldest grandchild living at Horace's death) is entitled to an interest, and then only to a life estate. (C) is incorrect because, as explained above, the remainder to the great-grandchildren is stricken as violative of the Rule Against Perpetuities. Thus, the remainder goes to Hiram's heirs rather than to the great-grandchildren.

\section{Answer to Question 3}

(D) The attempted contingent gift to the Boy Scouts' Council is void under the Rule Against Perpetuities. Under the common law Rule Against Perpetuities, an interest must vest, if at all, within 21 years of a life in being. The devise to Ronald gives him a fee simple determinable subject to an executory interest and attempts to give the Boy Scouts an executory interest in fee simple. However, the Boy Scouts' interest is void under the Rule because the camp might be used for noncamping or nonrecreational purposes long after any life in being plus 21 years. Thus, what remains is Ronald's fee simple determinable interest. Since Powell did not otherwise provide who would take if the Boy Scouts' interest failed, he was left with a possibility of reverter. Such an interest is not subject to the Rule Against Perpetuities. As Powell's sole heir, Erma took his possibility of reverter, and upon her death, her heir, Harold, took the interest. Thus, Harold has a possibility of reverter and the Boy Scouts have nothing, making (D) correct and (A) incorrect. (B) is incorrect because an executory interest is a future estate of transferees. Harold's interest arises through descent from Powell, the transferor, and so it must be a possibility of reverter rather than an executory interest. (C) is incorrect; remainders, whether vested or contingent, do not follow fees simple, including fees simple determinable, because remainders follow the natural termination of the preceding estate (a life estate) and fees simple do not naturally terminate. Any interest following a fee simple determinable is either a possibility of reverter (if held by or through the transferor) or an executory interest (if held by or through the transferee).

\section{Answer to Question 4}

(A) The nonassignment clause is valid and Miller may enforce it by terminating the lease and regaining possession of the store. Nonassignment clauses in leases are valid and enforceable even though strictly construed, and allow the landlord in most states to refuse to consent to an assignment even if the refusal is unreasonable. If a tenant makes an assignment in violation of a nonassignment clause in the lease, the transfer is not void. However, the landlord may terminate the lease if specifically provided by the nonassignment clause. Alternatively, he may sue for damages if he can prove any. Only choice (A) upholds the validity of the nonassignment clause. Choice (B) is incorrect. While most courts require a landlord to mitigate damages where a tenant unjustifiably abandons the property, this duty does not affect the landlord's power to terminate the lease because of a breach of the lease agreement. Dwight will still be liable to Miller for any damages from the unauthorized assignment, including the cost of evicting Ariel. (C) is incorrect because most states do not require that a landlord's refusal to accept a new tenant be reasonable. Furthermore, the fact that Ariel is operating the same type of business does not mean that Miller has suffered no harm, since she might be a much poorer credit risk than Dwight. (D) is incorrect. As an exception to the general rule that any restriction on the transferability of a legal interest in property is void, a provision in a lease prohibiting the lessee's assignment or subletting of her leasehold interest without the consent of the landlord is given effect in all jurisdictions.

\section{Answer to Question 5}

(D) Dan must pay 10 days' lodging because his notice to terminate will not become effective until then. In the usual case, a hotel guest is treated as a licensee rather than a tenant. Here, however, the court found that the parties created a tenancy because they specifically agreed to a week-toweek arrangement at a special weekly rate. A periodic tenancy arises when the parties do not fix the duration of the tenancy. It continues from period to period and is automatically renewed for another period until terminated by the giving of proper notice. The period is generally based on an express understanding between the parties or an implied understanding based on the payment of rent. Dan's arrangement with the hotel constitutes a periodic week-to-week tenancy because it was of indefinite duration and "rent" was paid each week. To terminate a periodic tenancy of less than one year, a full period in advance of the period in question is required by way of notice. For a week-to-week tenancy, notice at least one full week prior to vacating would have to be given prior to the beginning of the period. Thus, Dan's notice had no effect on his liability for that week's rent and would operate as one week's notice starting at the beginning of the next week. (A) is incorrect. If the parties had expressly agreed that either party could terminate at any time, a tenancy at will would have been created and Dan would be liable for nothing. However, the payment of rent on a regular periodic basis will cause a court to treat the tenancy as a periodic tenancy. (B) is incorrect because it does not take the one week's notice requirement into account. (C) is incorrect because the notice must fix the last day of the period as the date of termination rather than some intervening day. Thus, the notice period does not begin to run until the end of the current week.

\section{Answer to Question 6}

(B) Wallace has a valid easement, which was created by express grant, properly recorded, and presumed to be of perpetual duration. It is enforceable against Cyd, the subsequent purchaser of the servient estate, because nothing has occurred to terminate the easement. While an easement may be extinguished by abandonment, mere nonuse does not qualify as abandonment. Rather, there must be a physical manifestation of an intent to permanently abandon (e.g., building a permanent structure blocking access to the easement). Since Wallace did not manifest an intent to permanently abandon, (A) is incorrect. (C) is incorrect because Wallace has an easement created by express grant, not implied by necessity. An easement by necessity arises by implication when the owner of a tract of land sells part of the tract and by this division deprives one lot of access to a public road or utility line. Aside from the fact that Wallace has an express easement and need not resort to one by implication, nothing in these facts indicates that Wallace purchased Woodlot from the owner of Smoothacre or that the paved way through Smoothacre was Woodlot's only access to any public road. (D) is incorrect because the easement was not interfered with for the 15 -year prescription period. For an easement to terminate by prescription, the owner of the servient tenement must so interfere with the easement as to create a cause of action in favor of the easement holder. The adverse use must be open, notorious, continuous, and nonpermissive for the requisite period. The original owner of the servient estate, Arnold, apparently did nothing to interfere with Wallace's easement. Cyd, Arnold's successor, did everything necessary to terminate the easement by prescription, but his adverse use has lasted only six months instead of 15 years. 

\section{REAL PROPERTY}

\section{Answer to Question 7}

(D) Michael's leasing Blackacre to Theresa for 15 years will allow him to acquire title by adverse possession. Title by adverse possession results when the owner of real property does not, within the period set by the statute of limitations, take legal action to eject a possessor who claims adversely to the owner. The owner is thereafter barred from bringing suit for ejectment and title to the property vests in the possessor. For one to obtain title by adverse possession, the possession must be (i) open and notorious (i.e., such as the usual owner would make of the land), (ii) actual and exclusive (i.e., not in conjunction with the true owner or the public at large), (iii) continuous throughout the statutory period, and (iv) hostile. Here, Michael's act of leasing Blackacre is a kind of use that a true owner would make of the property; thus, it is an "actual" possession even though Michael himself is not living on the property. Theresa's occupancy is open and notorious, since Seymour discovered it as soon as he came to look at Blackacre. Michael's possession is exclusive because he has allowed only his tenant to enter onto the property. It is continuous because his tenant has occupied the property throughout the 15 years, and it is hostile because Michael acted without the true owner's permission and in derogation of the true owner's rights. Having satisfied all of the requirements for adverse possession, Michael should be declared to be the owner of Blackacre. (A) is incorrect because a lease to a third party does constitute actual possession by Michael. Leasing the property is a type of use that a true owner would make of the property, and occupancy by the adverse possessor's tenant would give the true owner notice that a trespass is occurring. (B) is incorrect because Seymour's ignorance of the fact that Blackacre was occupied is not an excuse. Theresa's occupancy was sufficiently apparent to put Seymour on notice that a trespass was occurring. His failure to visit the property during the statutory period provides him with no defense. (C) is incorrect because Seymour's abandonment of Blackacre is not sufficient to bestow title by adverse possession on Michael. Michael must satisfy the adverse possession requirements to obtain title.

\section{Answer to Question 8}

(B) Bart cannot evict Newt because he is not yet the owner of Springfield. The instrument of conveyance signed by Homer conveyed only a future interest and not a present estate. A future interest is an estate that does not entitle the owner thereof to possession, but it will or may in the future become a present interest. Because Homer's estate is not a life estate, the future interest conveyed to Bart is an executory interest. Furthermore, it is a springing executory interest because it divests the estate of the transferor, Homer (i.e., Homer's fee simple will be cut short if and when Bart receives his degree before age 30). Because Homer has retained his present estate, which is a fee simple subject to the springing executory interests of Bart and Lisa, only Homer would have the power to evict Newt. Bart, as the holder of a future interest, has no right to possession of the property and therefore has no cause of action against another in possession. (A) is incorrect because the language of Homer's conveyance clearly indicates that he is conveying a future interest rather than a present interest. (A) would have been correct if Homer had used the following language in his conveyance: "to my son Bart; provided, however, that if Bart does not receive a college degree by his 30th birthday, title shall pass to my daughter Lisa." Bart would have had a fee simple subject to divestment by Lisa's executory interest. Here, however, Homer expressly stated that Bart's receipt of a college degree was a condition precedent to the transfer of the property. Hence, Bart has only a future interest and not a fee simple of any kind. (C) is incorrect. If Bart had acquired a present possessory interest in the property, nothing would have prevented him from evicting Newt, regardless of his motivation. (D) is incorrect. If Homer had conveyed his present interest in the property, Newt's tenancy would have been terminated by operation of law because it was, at most, a tenancy at will. However, Homer conveyed only a future interest to Bart, so the conveyance had no effect on Newt's tenancy. 

\section{Answer to Question 9}

(A) The court should require specific performance of Partridge and Wren. When a transfer of land is preceded by a contract for sale, the risk of loss to the property during that time interval is imposed on the buyer in most jurisdictions. Thus, despite a loss due to fire or other casualty (assuming it was not due to the fault of either party), the buyer must still pay the contract price at the closing date unless the contract provides otherwise. Consequently, Partridge and Wren were still under a duty to tender the amount due on the property. Their failure to do so puts them in breach of contract, allowing Eagle to obtain specific performance (payment of the balance due on the contract). (B) is wrong because the preferred remedy for Eagle is specific performance. While Eagle could obtain a damage remedy based on the difference between the contract price and the market value of the land on the date of the breach, that would leave him with the task as executor of trying to resell the property. Because land is considered unique, a buyer is entitled to specific performance of the contract. On mutuality of remedy grounds, the seller (Eagle) can also get that remedy. (C) is incorrect because, as discussed above, the destruction of the garage does not allow Partridge and Wren to avoid performing the contract. They bore the risk of loss and could not obtain a refund of the earnest money even if Eagle had not sought to enforce the contract. (D) is incorrect because the contract can be specifically enforced. The reason that the buyer bears the risk of loss is that the doctrine of equitable conversion treats the buyer as the equitable owner of the land once the contract is signed. Hence, Owl's death would not prevent Partridge and Wren from specifically enforcing the contract by requiring Eagle to transfer legal title. Mutuality of remedy requires that this same remedy be available to Owl's executor, who is regarded as being owed a debt of the balance due on the contract. Eagle can therefore require payment of the balance as specific performance of the contract.

\section{Answer to Question 10}

(C) The court is likely to rule against Oiler because the covenant providing for the right of first refusal violates the Rule Against Perpetuities. Under the Rule, no interest in property is valid unless it must vest, if at all, no later than 21 years after a life in being at the creation of the interest. The Rule applies to rights of first refusal. Thus, if the right might be exercised later than the end of the perpetuities period, it is void. Since the interest ran to both parties' heirs and assigns, there was no limit on Oiler's right of first refusal; therefore, it could easily have been exercised beyond the perpetuities period, and so it violates the Rule. (A) is incorrect. The recording statute quoted by the question is a race-notice statute. Under a race-notice statute, a subsequent bona fide purchaser, such as Cowboy, is protected if he records before the prior grantee. To qualify as a bona fide purchaser, a person must, at the time of the conveyance, take without actual, constructive, or record notice of the prior interest. Since the deed to Astro was recorded, Cowboy had record notice of the right of first refusal because it was in his chain of title. Had the covenant been within the perpetuities period, Cowboy would not have been protected by the recording act. However, since the covenant is void, Oiler has no right to the property. Similarly, (B) is incorrect. The bad faith transaction of Astro and Ranger would not have overcome the covenant had the covenant not violated the Rule. In light of the fact that the covenant is void, however, their bad faith is irrelevant. (D) is incorrect because the covenant runs with the land. The requirements for the burden of the covenant to run are met in this case: The fact that the original covenanting parties intended the right of first refusal covenant to run to their successors is indicated by the use of the language "heirs and assigns." The notice requirement was fulfilled by recording the deed. The horizontal privity requirement is satisfied by the fact that Oiler and Astro shared an interest in the land independent of the covenant, i.e., as grantor and grantee. The necessary vertical privity is also present, because Ranger and Cowboy held the entire durational 

\section{REAL PROPERTY}

interest held by Oiler when the covenant was made. Last, the covenant runs with the land because it "touches and concerns" the land; i.e., it diminishes the landowner's right with respect to Cattlefork.

\section{Answer to Question 11}

(B) The court should partition Forestacre into two separate tracts. A court will presume that the devise to Pelt and Dash gave them a tenancy in common in Forestacre. Hence, each of them has the right to possess all portions of the property; neither of them has the right to exclusive possession of any part. However, any tenant in common has a right to judicial partition of the property, either in kind or by sale and division of the proceeds. When co-tenants are squabbling and cannot come to any agreement, the remedy of partition terminates the co-tenancy and divides the common property. Since Pelt and Dash cannot agree on the use of Forestacre by members of the hunting club, the court will probably partition the property. (A) is wrong because, even though there is no indication that Dash has ousted Pelt, i.e., wrongfully excluded him from possession of the property, Pelt is entitled to the remedy of partition because the parties cannot agree on the use of the property. (C) is wrong because Torrens did not own Forestacre at the time he attempted to convey the property in trust. While the instrument Torrens executed was in writing and properly identified the trustees and an appropriate beneficiary, Torrens had already conveyed away in fee simple his interest in the property; thus, he did not have the power to create a trust of Forestacre. (D) is wrong despite the fact that Pelt is entitled to possession and use of all of Forestacre to the same extent as Dash. Since the co-tenants cannot agree on this particular use of the land by members of the hunting club, a court will grant whichever tenant is before it the remedy of partition.

\section{Answer to Question 12}

(B) Dave will prevail only against Carla because only Carla has committed an actionable breach of the covenant against encumbrances. A grantor making a conveyance by general warranty deed generally makes five covenants for title, and warrants against title defects created both by herself and by all prior titleholders. The covenant of seisin, the covenant of right to convey, and the covenant against encumbrances are present covenants and are breached, if at all, at the time of conveyance. The covenant for quiet enjoyment and the covenant of warranty are future covenants and are breached only upon interference with the possession of the grantee or his successors. Unlike the future covenants, the present covenants do not "run" with the grantee's estate and cannot be enforced against the covenantor by successive grantees in most jurisdictions. Here, because the party holding the judgment lien has not taken any action to enforce it, there is no disturbance of possession and the future covenants have not been breached. Since the only covenant that has been breached was the covenant against encumbrances, only Dave's grantor, Carla, is liable. (A) is incorrect because most jurisdictions hold that a covenant against encumbrances is breached even if the grantee knew of the encumbrance, particularly if it is an encumbrance on title, such as a mortgage or lien, rather than a physical encumbrance such as an easement. (C) is incorrect even though it is true that Brenda will not be liable because she conveyed by special warranty deed, which covenants only that the grantor herself did not create any title defects. As discussed above, Allen is not liable to Dave because any future covenants he made have not been breached. (D) is incorrect because, as discussed above, neither Allen nor Brenda has breached any covenant owed to Dave, regardless of their knowledge of the lien. On the other hand, Carla has breached her covenant against encumbrances despite her ignorance of the judgment lien.

\section{Answer to Question 13}

(C) Christie owns Blackacre free of the mortgage because Brittany's status as a bona fide purchaser without notice brings the "shelter rule" into play. In general, a person who takes from a bona fide purchaser will prevail against any interest that the transferor-bona fide purchaser would have prevailed against, even if the person taking the property has actual or record notice of the prior interest. Hence, Brittany's status as a bona fide purchaser without notice "shelters" Christie from Maritime Bank's interest, and (C) is correct. (A) is incorrect because Christie's "sheltered" status as a transferee of a bona fide purchaser makes the fact that the recording act does not directly protect donees irrelevant. (B) is incorrect because a pure notice recording statute requires actual or constructive notice at the time of the conveyance. When Brittany conveyed to Christie, Maritime Bank had not yet recorded. (D) is incorrect because mortgagees for value are treated as "purchasers" under the recording act.

\section{Answer to Question 14}

(A) Darlene's ownership of Copperacre is subject to Yukon's interest because Yukon's interest was first in time. The common law rule that priority is given to the grantee who was first in time still applies unless operation of the jurisdiction's recording statute changes the result. The statute in this question is a race-notice statute, under which a subsequent bona fide purchaser is protected only if she records her interest before the prior grantee does. While Darlene is a bona fide purchaser, she must still win the race to the recording office to prevail over Yukon's prior interest. Since neither party has recorded in this fact pattern, Darlene will take the property subject to Yukon's prior interest. (B) is wrong because Yukon's option is treated as an interest in land just like his leasehold interest, regardless of the fact that it cannot yet be exercised. (C) is wrong because Darlene probably would prevail if she were to record now. Under the recording statute, it is irrelevant that Darlene became aware of Yukon's interest at a later point; at the time of the conveyance to her, she did not have notice of his interest and therefore qualifies as a bona fide purchaser. Had she recorded when she first encountered Yukon, she would have prevailed. Even if she were to record now, she could still prevail if Yukon does not record first. (D) is incorrect because it states the result under a notice statute. In contrast to a notice statute, the race-notice statute in the question would still permit Yukon to prevail even though he failed to record before Darlene purchased the property, as long as Darlene does not record before he does.

\section{Answer to Question 15}

(A) Unless Tully pays off the entire loan, First Bank can foreclose on Sweetacre. When a mortgagor sells his mortgaged property and gives a deed, the grantee takes subject to the mortgage, which remains on the land. A mortgage containing a "due-on-sale" clause allows the lender to demand full payment of the loan if the mortgagor transfers an interest in the property without the lender's consent. Under federal law, due-on-sale clauses are generally enforceable. Here, First Bank apparently did not consent to the transfer and Burt did not pay off the mortgage. The mortgage remained on Sweetacre and will allow First Bank to foreclose on Sweetacre unless Tully extinguishes the mortgage by paying off the entire loan. (B) is incorrect because First Bank cannot require Tully to assume the mortgage, which would make Tully personally liable on the loan (i.e., make him liable for the balance of the loan if the bank forecloses and the foreclosure sale does not bring in enough to pay off the loan balance). However, First Bank can foreclose even if Tully does not agree to assume the mortgage. While the original mortgagor remains primarily and 

\section{REAL PROPERTY}

personally liable, if the mortgagor has not paid off the mortgage and the grantee (Tully) does not pay, the mortgage may be foreclosed because it remains on the land. (C) is incorrect because there is no indication that Tully signed an assumption agreement. The due-on-sale clause will allow the bank to foreclose but will not make Tully personally liable for any deficit after the foreclosure sale. (D) is incorrect. While some states refused to enforce these clauses unless the lender's security was endangered by sale to a poor credit risk, federal statute now makes due-onsale clauses enforceable even if the lender is using it simply as an opportunity to raise the interest rate when the property is sold.

\section{Answer to Question 16}

(B) TNB can require either Able or Brett to pay the deficiency. When a mortgage is foreclosed and the proceeds of the foreclosure sale are insufficient to satisfy the mortgage debt, the mortgagee can bring a personal action against the mortgagor for the deficiency. The mortgagor remains personally liable on the mortgage loan regardless of any subsequent transfers of the mortgaged property. Hence, Able remains liable to TNB for the deficiency because he was the original mortgagor. Brett is also liable for the deficiency because he "assumed payment of" the mortgage. When a grantee signs an assumption agreement, promising to pay the mortgage loan, he becomes primarily liable to the lender (who is a third-party beneficiary of the assumption agreement), while the original mortgagor becomes secondarily liable as a surety. Thus, TNB can seek judgment against either Able or Brett for the deficiency, making (B) correct and (A) incorrect. (C) and (D) are incorrect because Carly is not liable for the deficiency. When a mortgagor sells property and conveys a deed, the grantee takes subject to the mortgage, which remains on the land (unless the proceeds of the sale are used to pay off the mortgage). However, a grantee who does not sign an assumption agreement does not become personally liable on the loan. Instead, the original mortgagor remains primarily and personally liable. Here, Carly only took "subject to the mortgage," without assuming it. Thus, she cannot be required to pay the deficiency.

\section{Answer to Question 17}

(C) Casbank should have its mortgage fully satisfied from the proceeds of the foreclosure sale, and the remainder should go toward satisfying Brubank's junior interest. As a general rule, the priority of a mortgage is determined by the time it was placed on the property. When a mortgage is foreclosed, the buyer at the sale will take title as it existed when the mortgage was placed on the property. Thus, foreclosure will destroy interests junior to the placing of the mortgage but will not discharge senior interests, which remain on the property. However, where a landowner enters into a modification agreement with the senior mortgagee that makes the mortgage more burdensome, the junior mortgage will be given priority over the modification. In particular, if a junior mortgage is placed on the property and the senior lender later makes an optional advance while having notice of the junior lien, the advance will lose priority to the junior lien. (An optional advance is one that the senior lender is not contractually bound to make.) Here, the senior mortgage of Brubank was modified by the additional advance after creation of the junior mortgage with Casbank; hence, the increase in the debt to Brubank will not have priority over Casbank's interest. Therefore, the proceeds of the foreclosure sale will be applied first to satisfy the \$ 15,000$ mortgage of Casbank that is being foreclosed, and the balance of \$ 3,000$ will go toward the \$ 15,000$ modification of Brubank's mortgage. This leaves a \$ 12,000$ deficiency, for which Augustus might be liable, and leaves the original \$ 20,000$ mortgage of Brubank, which remains on the property in the hands of the foreclosure sale buyer. (A) is wrong because Brubank's senior interest on the property is not affected by Casbank's foreclosure action; since Augustus is not in default on that mortgage, Brubank is not entitled to recover foreclosure proceeds for it. (B) is incorrect because the foreclosure proceeds are not divided proportionally between the interests affected by the foreclosure; they are first applied to fully satisfy the foreclosed mortgage, and whatever is left over is applied toward any junior interests in order of priority. (D) is wrong because Brubank's additional advance is junior to the Casbank mortgage and is wiped out by its foreclosure; hence, the balance of the proceeds after Casbank's mortgage is satisfied will be paid to partially satisfy Brubank's junior interest. 





\section{TORTS ANSWERS}

\section{Answer to Question 1}

(C) If Dietz did not know he was striking a person, he did not have the required intent for battery. To establish a prima facie case for an intentional tort such as battery, plaintiff must prove (i) an act by defendant, (ii) intent, and (iii) causation. The intent of the actor that is relevant for purposes of intentional torts is the intent to bring about the consequences that are the basis of the tort. An actor "intends" these consequences when his goal is to bring them about or when he knows with substantial certainty that they will result from his actions. The intent required for battery is an intent to bring about harmful or offensive contact to the plaintiff's person. [Restatement (Second) of Torts $\S 13(a)$ ] If Dietz did not know that he was striking a person, he could not have intended or known that a harmful or offensive contact with the person would result. Therefore, he will not have the intent required for battery. (A) is incorrect because the intent required is not an intent to cause harm to the person, but rather an intent to bring about the harmful or offensive contact. ("Offensive" contact is contact that the plaintiff has not expressly or impliedly consented to.) Thus, as long as Dietz at least knew that he was bringing about an offensive contact with Pansy, he will be liable for battery even though he had no desire to harm Pansy. (B) is incorrect because Dietz's mental illness does not preclude him from possessing the requisite intent for battery. As long as he was capable of intending the consequences of his conduct, i.e., intending to bring about the harmful or offensive contact, his inability to understand that his act was wrongful is irrelevant. (D) is incorrect because the defense of self-defense is only available when a person has reasonable grounds to believe that he is being attacked or is about to be attacked. This is an objective test-how the situation would have looked to a reasonable person under the circumstances. The facts here make it clear that a reasonable person would not have believed that he was about to be attacked. Dietz therefore will not be able to successfully claim self-defense.

\section{Answer to Question 2}

(D) Paul will prevail because Donnalou had the intent to commit a battery. To establish a prima facie case for battery, plaintiff must establish (i) an act by defendant that brings about harmful or offensive contact to the plaintiff's person, (ii) intent on the part of the defendant to bring about harmful or offensive contact to plaintiff's person, and (iii) causation. The harmful or offensive contact may be either direct or indirect; i.e., it is sufficient if defendant sets in motion a force that brings about harmful or offensive contact to the plaintiff's person. Here, all of the elements are present for a battery case against Donnalou. She acted by placing the drug in Paul's juice knowing that he would drink it. While she did not expect Paul to have a severe reaction to the drug, she did intend for it to affect him; i.e., she intended an offensive contact. Paul can establish causation not only for the initial reaction but also for the injuries from the car crash, because his ingestion of the drug was a substantial factor in bringing about those injuries. Thus, Paul can establish a prima facie case for battery against Donnalou, and Donnalou has no legitimate defenses that will prevent Paul from recovering for his injuries. (A) is incorrect because Dr. Pillpush's negligence does not break the causal connection between Paul's injuries from the auto accident and Donnalou's tortious act. Even though the accident would not have occurred but for the doctor's negligence, Donnalou's conduct was the primary factor in bringing about Paul's injuries. (B) is incorrect because Donnalou's lack of intent to harm Paul is irrelevant. As long as she intended that Paul ingest the drug, she intended an offensive contact. Thus, she is liable for battery even though she did not intend to harm Paul. (C) is incorrect. Unlike in negligence cases, the unforeseeability of additional forces that contribute to plaintiff's injury in an intentional tort case does not make them superseding forces that break the causal connection between the initial wrongful act and the ultimate injury. Even if the automobile accident could not have reasonably 130. TORTS

been foreseen, Donnalou will be liable because her conduct was a substantial factor in bringing about the injury.

\section{Answer to Question 3}

(C) Steve can recover \$ 18,000$ from Randy for conversion. A conversion is an interference with plaintiff's possessory rights in a chattel that is so serious as to warrant that the defendant pay full value for the chattel. Here, Randy's permission to use the boat had long since expired when the boat was severely damaged by the tree. While Randy would not have been responsible for that damage had it occurred while he was still rightfully in possession of the boat, the combination of the wrongful detention and the severe damage amounts to a conversion. Hence, Steve is entitled to recover damages for the fair market value of the boat at the time and place of conversion, in effect creating a forced sale of the boat. (A) and (B) are wrong because Steve can recover more than the actual damage to the boat and damages for dispossession; those remedies are appropriate for trespass to chattels, which is a less serious interference with plaintiff's possessory rights in a chattel. (B) and (D) are wrong because Steve is not liable for the damage to Randy's garden when he went to retrieve the boat. When a chattel is located on the land of a wrongdoer, the owner is privileged to enter upon the land and reclaim it in a reasonable manner. Unlike an entry onto the land of an innocent party, reasonable entry onto the land of a wrongdoer is completely privileged; i.e., the chattel owner does not have to pay for any actual damage caused by the entry.

\section{Answer to Question 4}

(D) Mommy will lose because she will not be able to establish a prima facie case for negligent infliction of emotional distress. An action for negligent infliction of emotional distress requires plaintiff to show that defendant's conduct created a foreseeable risk of physical injury to plaintiff, and that the emotional distress caused by this conduct also resulted in some physical injury to plaintiff. Here, the first element is established because the negligence of the theater employee created a foreseeable risk that Mommy would be injured by biting down on the coin, but the second element is not established because Mommy's nightmares and loss of sleep that night do not amount to an actionable physical injury, and she suffered no other injury by biting the coin. Note that if she had suffered physical injury by biting the coin, she would have a prima facie case against the theater for negligence. She then would have been able to recover for her emotional distress as a "parasitic" element of her physical injury damages. (A) is incorrect because Dizzie's negligence only establishes the first element of the case for negligent infliction of emotional distress; the element of physical injury is not established. (B) is incorrect because emotional distress alone is not a sufficient injury where the defendant's conduct was only negligent. If Dizzie instead had purposely put the coin in the popcorn with knowledge or reckless disregard of the likely effect of his conduct, Mommy's emotional distress probably would be sufficient for establishing a prima facie case of intentional infliction of emotional distress. (C) is wrong because the element of emotional distress in this tort does not depend upon foreseeability or a reasonable person standard; only the initial threat of physical injury need be foreseeable. Had Mommy otherwise established a prima facie case by proving physical injury, the fact that a reasonable person would not have suffered similar distress is irrelevant.

\section{Answer to Question 5}

(A) Hound could not recover his economic losses from the injury to his dog unless Publectric was negligent. If Publectric was negligent, Hound could recover any property damage caused by the negligence, including whatever decline in the dog's value Hound is able to prove. (B) is incorrect because the fact that the guardrail meets typical industry standards does not preclude a finding of negligence. If adherence to industry standards does not prevent an unreasonable risk of harm, defendant may be in breach of its duty of ordinary care. (C) is incorrect; the fact that the dog escaped from Hound's yard would only be relevant if it indicated contributory negligence on Hound's part. In this case, Hound frequently walked the dog on his lawn without a leash and had no advance warning that the dog would suddenly bolt after a squirrel; his conduct is not so lacking in due care as to amount to contributory negligence. (D) is wrong because that option does not take into account the duty of care to avoid injury to property. Although a lesser degree of care may be required where the defendant's conduct poses a risk of harm only to property and not to persons, the same general rules of negligence apply. Hence, if Publectric's conduct creates a risk of injury to property that is deemed unreasonable (based on the magnitude of the risk and the utility of the conduct), it may incur liability even though it created no risk of injury to persons.

\section{Answer to Question 6}

(B) MMMA has breached its duty of care to Norton if it had reason to know of the danger. An owner or occupier of land owes a duty of care to make the premises reasonably safe for its invitees. For an owner of a place of public accommodation who gathers the public for profit, the duty extends to protecting its patrons from injury from third persons where the owner knew or should have known of the danger. Both Martha and Norton are business invitees of Modern Mall because Martha is a potential customer of the business, even though she was not planning to buy anything, and Norton is accompanying Martha. Thus, if MMMA had reason to know of any danger to Norton from criminal acts of third persons, MMMA has breached its duty to Norton. Norton should have little difficulty establishing actual cause, proximate cause, and damages, the other elements of his prima facie case. (Assuming that MMMA had reason to know of the danger of a criminal act against Norton, the act is foreseeable and thus not a superseding intervening force that would cut off the causal connection.) Hence, MMMA is likely to be found liable to Norton. (A) is incorrect because owners of land, even those opening their premises to the public for profit, are not strictly liable to their customers for injuries from third persons. MMMA must have been negligent for it to be liable to Norton. (C) is incorrect because a criminal act of a third person is a superseding force only if it is not foreseeable. If MMMA had reason to know of the danger of a criminal act against Norton, it was negligent in failing to take steps to eliminate the danger, and this negligence created a foreseeable risk that Norton would be harmed by a third person. (D) is incorrect because Norton was accompanying Martha, who was a potential customer of the business, and is therefore an invitee as to all areas of the mall that were open to the public, including its restrooms.

\section{Answer to Question 7}

(B) The fact least helpful to the city's defense of Penquist's lawsuit is the identity of the workers who blocked the exit ramp. Under vicarious liability rules, a principal will be liable for the tortious acts of an independent contractor if the duty is nondelegable on public policy grounds; included is the duty of a possessor of land to keep its premises safe for its invitees. If the workers were negligent in leaving the ramp blocked without providing another means of exiting, the fact that they were not city employees would not absolve the city of liability; hence, their identity would be of no help to the city's defense. (A) is incorrect because if Penquist was aware of an alternate route, he may have been contributorily negligent in exiting down the entrance ramp. A plaintiff's contributory negligence may be established by violation of an applicable statute. However, as with a statutory duty imposed on defendant, plaintiff's violation of the statute may be excused if compliance was beyond plaintiff's control. If no other means of exiting the garage were known 

\section{TORTS}

to Penquist, he may be excused for violating the traffic statute; however, if he knew of an alternative exit, the city will probably be able to establish contributory negligence on his part by his violation of the statute. (C) is incorrect because whether the city collects fees and makes a profit in operation of the garage will be considered by the court in determining whether the jurisdiction's governmental immunity applies. Where municipal immunity still exists, courts have limited its scope by differentiating between "governmental" and "proprietary" functions of the municipality. If the municipality is performing a function that might as well have been provided by a private corporation, the function may be construed as a proprietary one and no immunity will attach. The inference that a function is proprietary will be strengthened where the city collects revenues by virtue of providing the service. Hence, the fact that the city is not collecting revenues or making a profit in operating the garage will make it less likely that the function will be deemed to be proprietary and more likely that it will be deemed to be governmental and thus immune; in other words, it will be more helpful rather than less helpful in the city's defense. (D) is incorrect because Totten's conduct under these circumstances would be deemed a superseding force that breaks the causal connection between any negligence on the part of the city and Penquist's injury. Assuming that the city workers were negligent, the fact that an independent intervening force caused the injury generally would not cut off the city's liability, because its negligence created a foreseeable risk of that harm occurring. However, where this foreseeable harm is caused by an unforeseeable crime or intentional tort of a third party, most courts would not hold the city liable, treating the crime or tort as a superseding force. Here, while blocking the exit ramp created a foreseeable risk that someone might collide with Penquist, it was not foreseeable that his enemy would take that opportunity to commit an intentional tort against him. Because Totten's conduct was unforeseeable under the circumstances in choice (D), the city would be relieved of liability for any negligence in blocking the ramp.

\section{Answer to Question 8}

(D) If Zarkov had reason to know of Ming's violent propensity, he could be liable for his own negligence in not attempting to search for Ming or alert the authorities. Under principles of vicarious liability, the tortious conduct of one person may be imputed to another person when a special relationship exists between the tortfeasor and the other person. However, a parent is not vicariously liable at common law for the tortious conduct of her child. The statute given in the question does not change this result; it merely establishes that Zarkov would be liable for Ming's conduct to the same extent as if he were Ming's parent. Given the absence of vicarious liability in this situation, the only liability that Zarkov might face is for his own negligence in not preventing the beating. If Zarkov had reason to know that Ming had a propensity to commit violent acts, Zarkov owed a duty to persons who might be injured by Ming, and this duty was breached by Zarkov's inaction after Ming was reported missing. Whether Zarkov's negligence can be shown to be the actual cause of Gordon's injury is not conclusively established by the facts; given the short interval between when Ming ran away and when he was discovered missing, and the long interval between the discovery and the beating a few blocks away from the institute, Gordon probably can prove actual cause. Proximate cause can also be established because Ming's intentional tort was foreseeable; it was the very conduct that Zarkov had a duty to take precautions against. Hence, given the factual assumption in choice (D), Zarkov probably will be liable for Gordon's injuries. (A) is incorrect because whether or not Ming would be liable for administering the beating has no effect on Zarkov's liability for his own negligence. (B) is wrong because the statute merely makes those standing in loco parentis liable to the same extent as parents. Because parents would not be liable in the absence of reason to know of their child's violent propensity, Zarkov also would be liable only under those circumstances. (C) is incorrect even though its statement of law is accurate. While Zarkov cannot be found vicariously liable for Ming's acts, he may be liable for his own negligence under the circumstances stated in choice (D).

\section{Answer to Question 9}

(C) The court should grant Shortstop's motion for a directed verdict because Jason has not established a prima facie case of negligence on Shortstop's part. Jason has established that Shortstop owed a duty to him and that he has suffered harm from the fire caused by the short in the wiring. However, he has not established that Shortstop breached any duty to him. While breach of duty is ordinarily a question for the trier of fact, plaintiff's failure to offer any evidence on that element of the prima facie case will permit a directed verdict for defendant. Under certain circumstances, the fact that a particular injury occurred may itself establish or tend to establish a breach of duty owed, permitting the trier of fact to infer defendant's liability. This is the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur ("the thing speaks for itself"). However, for the doctrine to apply, plaintiff must show that (i) the accident causing his injury is the type that would not normally occur unless someone was negligent; (ii) the negligence was attributable to defendant; and (iii) the injury was not attributable to plaintiff. The second requirement can often be satisfied by showing that the instrumentality causing the injury was in the exclusive control of the defendant. Here, however, the wiring was exposed to work done by other contractors on an immediately adjacent chimney and hot water pipe, and in putting up the walls, and Jason has offered no evidence that the cut in the outer sheath of the wiring was present when Shortstop finished its work. Instead, the fact that the wiring had been approved by the building inspector suggests that the wiring was intact when Shortstop finished. Given these facts, Jason has not presented evidence that the negligence was attributable to the defendant. Since res ipsa loquitur does not apply and no other evidence of breach of duty was established, Shortstop's motion for a directed verdict should be granted. (C) is therefore correct and (A) and (B) are incorrect. (B) is also incorrect because Jason's motion for a directed verdict would be denied even if he had established res ipsa loquitur. Establishing res ipsa loquitur merely creates a permissible inference of negligence; it does not create a presumption of negligence. Where the res ipsa loquitur element has been proved, plaintiff has established a prima facie breach of duty on defendant's part and no directed verdict may be given for defendant. However, it does not require defendant to present evidence to rebut a presumption. The trier of fact is free to accept the inference of negligence that has been created and find for the plaintiff or reject the inference of negligence and find for the defendant, even if the defendant offers no other evidence on the issue. Thus, the court would not grant Jason's motion for a directed verdict even if he had established res ipsa loquitur. (D) is incorrect because Shortstop is not strictly liable for the short in the wiring. Jason's failure to offer some evidence of negligence on the part of Shortstop will allow Shortstop to prevail.

\section{Answer to Question 10}

(B) Hospital Suppliers would be liable to Paul in a strict products liability action if it could have installed a safety latch on the footrest without incurring unreasonable additional cost or unreasonably impairing the table's utility. Under section 402A of the Restatement (Second) of Torts, a commercial supplier of a product may be liable to any foreseeable plaintiff who was injured by a product that was in a defective condition unreasonably dangerous to users. In making this determination, many courts have considered one of the principal factors to be whether the product could be modified to make it less dangerous without making it unreasonably expensive or without unreasonably impairing its utility, which is the condition stated in choice (B). (A) is not as good an answer as (B) because the fact that the $\mathrm{x}$-ray table is defective does not establish by itself a breach of the manufacturer's duty. The defect must make the product unreasonably dangerous to users and the defect must have existed when the product left defendant's control for 

\section{TORTS}

defendant to be strictly liable. (C) is wrong because an intermediary's ordinary negligence is not a superseding cause that would relieve the manufacturer from liability. Here, the injury was caused by both the failure of the footrest and the improper tightening of the straps. The latter occurrence is ordinary foreseeable negligence that would not supersede whatever liability Hospital Suppliers is judged to have for the failure of the footrest. (D) is incorrect because the fact that the table was not in the exclusive control of Hospital Suppliers is irrelevant. Exclusive control is a means of showing an element of res ipsa loquitur, a doctrine for proving breach of duty in a negligence action. In a strict products liability action, Hospital Suppliers will be liable for an unreasonably dangerous defective condition as long as the table was expected to, and did in fact, become operational without substantial change in the condition in which it was supplied.

\section{Answer to Question 11}

(A) If a hospital employee was negligent in strapping Paul to the table, the hospital is vicariously liable under the doctrine of respondeat superior. This doctrine imposes liability on an employer for the tortious conduct of its employee occurring within the scope of the employment relationship. Here, strapping Paul to the table was one of the employee's tasks. Since this task was performed negligently and this negligence was one of the causes of Paul's injuries, the hospital would be liable. $(\mathrm{B})$ is wrong because the failure to make a reasonable inspection of the footrest is not the negligent conduct suggested by the facts; rather, it was the failure to strap Paul in securely that probably was negligent. (C) is incorrect because the hospital will be liable even if Paul cannot identify which specific hospital employee was negligent. Through the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur, Paul can establish breach of duty just by the fact that Paul fell off the table after he had been strapped in; in other words, an inference of negligence is established because the accident causing his injury is the type that would not normally occur unless someone was negligent. The other two elements required for res ipsa loquitur are that plaintiff was free of fault, which is easy to show in this case, and that the negligence was attributable to the defendant; i.e., that this type of accident ordinarily happens because of the negligence of someone in defendant's position. This requirement often can be satisfied by showing that the instrumentality that caused the injury was in the exclusive control of the defendant. If Paul were suing the nurses or technicians individually, this requirement would prevent him from using res ipsa loquitur in most jurisdictions because he could not establish which individual party was negligent. However, the hospital will be liable under the doctrine of respondeat superior regardless of which of its employees was negligent, because the hospital, through its employees, did have exclusive control over the $x$-ray table. (D) is incorrect because Doctors' Hospital could still lose even if the injury to Paul was caused by a defect present at the time the x-ray table was purchased, if the defect could have been easily discovered through a reasonable inspection.

\section{Answer to Question 12}

(B) Mac's is strictly liable to Pedro if Mac's sold a defective tire to Sandra. The question does not indicate what theory Pedro is using in his products liability action, so you should analyze the facts under a strict liability theory because it is the easiest theory for a plaintiff to establish. In a strict liability action based on a defective product, plaintiff must prove that (i) defendant was a commercial supplier owing a strict duty, (ii) the duty was breached because the product was supplied in a defective condition unreasonably dangerous to users, (iii) the defect was the actual and proximate cause of plaintiff's injuries, and (iv) plaintiff suffered damages. Here, Mac's is a commercial supplier because it is a retailer of the tires, and therefore owes a strict duty to any user or foreseeable bystander; Pedro need not have purchased the tire from Mac's to recover. If the tire was defective when it was placed into commerce by the manufacturer, it would be unreasonably dangerous, i.e., dangerous beyond the expectation of the ordinary consumer, and Mac's would be in breach of its strict duty by selling it. Pedro can establish actual cause by showing that, but for the defect, the tire would not have suddenly blown out and the car would not have crashed. Proximate cause can be shown even if Sandra, the original purchaser, was negligent in not discovering the defect before selling the car to Pedro, because the negligent failure of an intermediary to discover a defect is not a superseding cause that would cut off the supplier's strict liability. Upon proof of the final element, damages, Pedro can recover from Mac's on a strict liability theory. (A) is incorrect because the fact that the tire blew out for no apparent reason is not sufficient to establish that the tire was defective when it was placed in commerce, which is a necessary element to impose strict liability on commercial suppliers. While the fact that the tire blew out suggests that it may have been defective, Pedro must present some evidence that the blowout was not caused by improper use or maintenance by either Sandra or him. (C) is incorrect because the care taken by Mac's in distributing tires from a reputable manufacturer, while it would be a defense in an action based on negligence, is not a defense in an action based on strict liability. Because strict liability may be one of the theories Pedro is using, $(\mathrm{C})$ is not the best choice. Similarly, (D) is incorrect because even if Pedro's exceeding the speed limit was contributory negligence, it would not be a defense to a strict liability action in a jurisdiction retaining traditional contributory negligence doctrines. The fact that it was widely known in the tire industry that users would exceed posted speed limits indicates that Pedro's misuse of the tires was reasonably foreseeable; hence, it is a type of ordinary negligence that is not a defense in a strict liability action.

\section{Answer to Question 13}

(C) The court should deny Gasmask's motion if it determines that Gasmask's storage of chemicals was an abnormally dangerous activity, making Gasmask strictly liable for any harm caused by the chemicals. Canyon City can bring a private nuisance action against Gasmask for the substantial and unreasonable interference with the use of its water. Nuisances may be based on intent, negligence, or strict liability. A strict liability standard for engaging in an ultrahazardous or abnormally dangerous activity would apply where the activity (i) involves a risk of serious harm to persons or property; (ii) cannot be performed without risk of serious harm no matter how much care is taken; and (iii) is not a commonly engaged-in activity by persons in the community. Whether an activity is abnormally dangerous is a question of law that the court can decide on a motion for a directed verdict. Since Canyon City has presented no evidence of negligence on Gasmask's part, the only way that Canyon City can survive Gasmask's directed verdict motion is if the court finds that a strict liability standard applies, as suggested by (C). Choice (A) is incorrect. While no evidence of a breach of duty owed in negligence has been shown, Canyon City has presented enough evidence to establish breach of Gasmask's absolute duty to make the storage safe, if the court finds that Gasmask was engaged in an abnormally dangerous activity. Canyon City has a cause of action for the breach of duty because its use of the water table adjacent to the storage site makes it a foreseeable plaintiff. (B) is incorrect because the fact that Canyon City drilled its wells after Gasmask stored its chemicals would not bar Canyon City from recovering and would have no effect on Gasmask's motion. This defense, called "coming to the nuisance," is generally rejected by the courts. (D) is incorrect because, as discussed above, whether the elements making an activity abnormally dangerous are present is a question of law for the court rather than a question of fact.

\section{Answer to Question 14}

(C) Primrose will prevail because Daffodil's violation of the statute resulted in Primrose's injuries. The applicable standard of care in a negligence action can be established by proving the applicability 

\section{TORTS}

to that action of a statute providing for a criminal penalty. If this is done, the statute's specific duty will replace the more general common law duty of care. For the statutory standard to be applicable, plaintiff must show that (i) he is within the class intended to be protected by the statute, (ii) the statute was designed to prevent the type of harm that the plaintiff suffered, and (iii) the statute clearly defined the standard of conduct expected. Here, the OADA provision applies because Primrose is a minor purchasing a large quantity of model airplane glue, the serious injury he suffered from sniffing the glue was one of the harms that the statute was designed to prevent, and the statute clearly prohibited the transaction that took place between Primrose and Daffodil. The effect of establishing a violation of the statute is that a conclusive presumption of duty and breach of duty is established. Primrose should then be able to establish that Daffodil's sale of the glue was the actual cause and proximate cause of Primrose's injuries, completing the prima facie case of negligence on Daffodil's part. (A) is incorrect because Primrose's assumption of the risk is not a defense under these circumstances. The facts indicate that the state has retained the common law tort defense of assumption of the risk. Under this defense, a plaintiff will be denied recovery in a negligence action if he either expressly or impliedly knew of the risk of injury and voluntarily proceeded in the face of the risk. However, courts refuse to permit an assumption of risk defense in some situations because of public policy considerations. When a statute applies and is enacted to protect a class, members of that class will not be deemed to have assumed any risk. Here, even though Primrose was aware of the danger when he voluntarily sniffed the glue, the statute was enacted to protect minors such as Primrose from the dangers of glue sniffing. Thus, Daffodil cannot rely on assumption of risk as a defense. (B) is incorrect because minors such as Primrose who were experimenting with glue sniffing were a primary target of the OADA provision. (D) is incorrect because the statute does not provide for a reasonable mistake to excuse its violation. If the common law duty of reasonable care were applicable here, the reasonableness of Daffodil's mistake would be relevant. However, the statute's specific duty replaces the more general duty of reasonable care, and violation of a statutory standard will only be excused where compliance would cause more danger than violation or would be beyond defendant's control. Neither situation is indicated here, so the statute applies.

\section{Answer to Question 15}

(A) Donald is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount of Pluto's damages that Pluto himself was not responsible for, but can obtain contribution from Mickey in proportion to Mickey's fault. Comparative negligence jurisdictions allow a plaintiff to recover some percentage of his damages even though he was contributorily negligent in causing the accident. "Pure" comparative negligence allows a plaintiff some recovery no matter how great his negligence was. Most comparative negligence jurisdictions retain the doctrine of joint and several liability, which makes each of several tortfeasors liable to the plaintiff for the entire amount of damages to which the plaintiff is entitled. However, if one tortfeasor does have to pay the plaintiff the entire judgment, the rule of contribution allows the paying tortfeasor to recover the excess over his share from the nonpaying tortfeasor. If contribution is based on comparative fault, the nonpaying tortfeasor is required to contribute an amount in proportion to his relative fault. Here, Pluto suffered \$ 100,000$ in damages but was $30 \%$ at fault, allowing him a net recovery of \$ 70,000-\$ 100,000$ minus $30 \%(\$ 30,000)$. He can recover the entire \$ 70,000$ from Donald because the jurisdiction retains the doctrine of joint and several liability. However, under a system of contribution based on comparative fault, Donald can compel Mickey to pay him \$ 40,000$ as contribution because Mickey was $40 \%$ at fault in causing the \$ 100,000$ of damages incurred by Pluto. (B) is incorrect. If Donald did only pay \$ 40,000$ to Pluto, he could compel Mickey to pay \$ 10,000$ as contribution (because Donald's proportional share of the damages is only \$ 30,000$ ). However, because Donald is jointly and severally liable, Pluto can collect up to \$ 70,000$ from him. (C) is incorrect because Donald is liable for more than his proportional share of the damages if the jurisdiction provides for joint and several liability. (D) is incorrect because a pure comparative negligence jurisdiction allows recovery no matter how great plaintiff's negligence is compared with defendant's. (D) probably also would be incorrect in a "partial" comparative negligence jurisdiction that only allows plaintiff to recover if he is less at fault than defendant. Most of these jurisdictions use a "combined comparison" approach when several tortfeasors are involved, comparing plaintiff's negligence with the total negligence of all of the defendants combined. Because Pluto was only $30 \%$ at fault and Donald and Mickey together were $70 \%$ at fault, Pluto could recover against Donald even in a partial comparative negligence jurisdiction.

\section{Answer to Question 16}

(C) In the absence of joint and several liability, Donald is liable only for the portion of Pluto's damages for which he was responsible. As discussed in the answer to the preceding question, joint and several liability makes each of several negligent actors liable to the plaintiff for the entire amount of damages to which plaintiff is entitled. Because the jurisdiction has abolished this rule, Donald is liable to Pluto for only $30 \%$ of his damages $(\$ 30,000)$, because Donald was $30 \%$ at fault in causing the accident. (A) is incorrect because the jurisdiction has abolished joint and several liability. Had it been retained, (A) would be correct because common law contribution rules require all tortfeasors to pay equal shares regardless of their respective degrees of fault (i.e., Donald would ultimately have to pay \$ 35,000$ even though he was only $30 \%$ at fault). (B) is incorrect because Donald is liable only for \$ 30,000$, because he was only $30 \%$ at fault in causing the accident. (D) is incorrect because, as discussed in the answer to the preceding question, a pure comparative negligence jurisdiction allows recovery no matter how great plaintiff's negligence is when compared with defendant's.

\section{Answer to Question 17}

(B) The Journal will be liable if it was negligent as to truth or falsity because the statement was regarding a matter of public concern. Supreme Court decisions based on the First Amendment now impose a fault requirement in defamation cases involving public figures or matters of public concern. Where the defamation involves a matter of public concern but the plaintiff is not a public figure, the plaintiff must show that the defendant permitted the false statement to appear, if not through malice, at least through negligence as to its truth or falsity. Here, the defamatory statement was contained in a newspaper article about a contentious public meeting on a controversial issue; thus, its content, form, and context indicate that a matter of public concern was involved. The other elements required to establish defamation of a private person on a matter of public concern are also present here: the statement was false and defamatory to Carla (given her beliefs), was published in the newspaper, and caused her mental anguish, which is sufficient to satisfy the requirement of actual injury. (A) is incorrect because it is not sufficient for Carla to establish only the elements of common law defamation for her to prevail. Because this statement involves a matter of public concern, she must also show either (i) negligence as to truth or falsity and actual injury, or (ii) actual malice (knowledge of falsity or reckless disregard of truth or falsity). (C) is incorrect. Carla does not have to show knowledge of falsity or reckless disregard as to truth or falsity because she is not a public official or public figure. While a person may be deemed a public figure where she voluntarily assumes a central role in a particular public controversy (e.g., a prominent community activist), merely voicing one's opinion at a public meeting does not make one a public figure, even though the matter is one of public concern and the subject of a newspaper article. (D) is incorrect because the qualified privilege for reports of public proceedings only excuses accurate reports of statements that were false when made; it does not excuse inaccuracies in the reporting of statements, which is what happened here.