\section{Questions 1-2} are based on the following fact situation:

Paula sued for injuries she sustained in a fall in a hotel hallway connecting the lobby of the hotel with a restaurant located in the hotel building. The hallway floor was covered with vinyl tile. The defendants were Horne, owner of the hotel building, and Lee, lessee of the restaurant. The evidence was that the hallway floor had been waxed approximately an hour before Paula slipped on it, and although the wax had dried, there appeared to be excessive dried wax caked on several of the tiles. Horne's defense was that the hallway was a part of the premises leased to Lee over which he retained no control, and Lee denied negligence and alleged contributory negligence.


\section{1} Lee offered to prove by Marks, the restaurant manager, that in the week immediately preceding Paula's fall at least 1,000 people had used the hallway in going to and from the restaurant, and Marks had neither seen anyone fall nor received reports that anyone had fallen. The trial judge should rule this evidence:

(A) Admissible, because it tends to prove that Paula did not use the care exercised by reasonably prudent people.

(B) Admissible, because it tends to prove that Lee was generally careful in maintaining the floor.

(C) Inadmissible, because Marks's testimony is self-serving.

(D) Inadmissible, because it does not bear on the issue of Lee's exercise of due care on this specific occasion.


\section{2} If Paula offered to prove that the day after she fell, Horne had the vinyl tile taken up and replaced with a new floor covering, the trial judge should rule the evidence:

(A) Admissible, because it is relevant to the issue of whether Horne retained control of the hallway. (B) Admissible, because it is relevant in the issue of awareness of the unsafe condition of the hallway at the time of Paula's fall.

(C) Inadmissible, because there was no showing that the new floor covering would be any safer than the old.

(D) Inadmissible, because to admit such would discourage a policy of making repairs to prevent further injury, regardless of fault.

\section{Question 3}

Powers sued Debbs for battery. At trial, Powers's witness, Wilson, testified that Debbs had made an unprovoked attack on Powers.

On cross-examination, Debbs asks Wilson about a false claim that Wilson had once filed on an insurance policy. The question is:

(A) Proper, because the conduct involved untruthfulness.

(B) Proper, provided that the conduct resulted in conviction of Wilson.

(C) Improper, because the impeachment involved a specific instance of misconduct.

(D) Improper, because the claim form would be the best evidence.

\section{Question 4}

In a tort action, Fisher testified against Dawes. Dawes then called Jones, who testified that Fisher had a bad reputation for veracity. Dawes then also called Weld to testify that Fisher once perpetrated a hoax on the police.

Weld's testimony is:

(A) Admissible, because a hoax involves untruthfulness.

(B) Admissible, provided that the hoax resulted in conviction of Fisher. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

(C) Inadmissible, because it is merely cumulative impeachment.

(D) Inadmissible, because it is extrinsic evidence of a specific instance of misconduct.



\section{Questions 5-6} are based on the following fact situation:

Peters sued Davis for \$ 100,000$ for injuries received in a traffic accident. Davis charges Peters with contributory negligence and alleges that Peters failed to have his lights on at a time when it was dark enough to require them.


\section{5} Davis calls Bystander to testify that Passenger, who was riding in Peters's automobile and who was injured, confided to him at the scene of the accident that "we should have had our lights on." Bystander's testimony is:
(A) Admissible as an admission of a party opponent.
(B) Admissible as a statement against interest.
(C) Inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
(D) Inadmissible, because it is opinion.


\section{6} Davis offers to have Bystander testify that he was talking to Witness when he heard the crash and heard Witness, now deceased, exclaim, "That car doesn't have any lights on." Bystander's testimony is:
(A) Admissible as a statement of present sense impression.
(B) Admissible, because Witness is not available to testify.
(C) Inadmissible as hearsay not within any exception.
(D) Inadmissible, because of the Dead Man's Statute.



\section{Questions 7-8} are based on the following fact situation:

Owner and his employee, Driver, consult Attorney about a motor vehicle collision resulting in a suit by Litigant against Owner and Driver as joint defendants. Attorney calls Irving, his investigator, into the conference to make notes of what is said, and those present discuss the facts of the collision and Owner's insurance. Owner thereafter files a cross-claim against Driver for indemnity for any damages obtained by Litigant.


\section{7} Litigant calls Driver to testify in Litigant's case-in-chief to admissions made by Owner in the conference. On objection by Owner, the court should rule that Driver's testimony is:
(A) Admissible, because of the presence of persons in the conference other than Attorney and Owner.
(B) Admissible, because Driver is an adverse party in the lawsuit.
(C) Inadmissible, because of the attorney- client privilege.
(D) Inadmissible, because the best evi- dence is Irving's notes of the confer- ence.


\section{8} Driver calls Irving in his defense against the cross-claim. He seeks to have Irving testify to admissions made by Owner in the conference. On objection by Owner, the court should rule Irving's testimony:
(A) Admissible, because the attorney- client privilege does not apply, in suits between those conferring with him, to joint consultations with an attorney.
(B) Admissible, because the attorney- client privilege does not apply to testimony by one who does not stand in a confidential relationship with the person against whom the evidence is offered. (C) Admissible, because the conference was not intended to be confidential, since it concerned anticipated testimony in open court.

(D) Inadmissible, because Owner has not waived the attorney-client privilege.



\section{Questions 9-11} are based on the following fact situation:

Pemberton and three passengers, Able, Baker, and Charley, were injured when their car was struck by a truck owned by Mammoth Corporation and driven by Edwards. Helper, also a Mammoth employee, was riding in the truck. The issues in Pemberton $v$. Mammoth include the negligence of Edwards in driving too fast and in failing to wear glasses, and of Pemberton in failing to yield the right of way.


\section{9} Pemberton's counsel proffers evidence showing that shortly after the accident, Mammoth put a speed governor on the truck involved in the accident. The judge should rule the proffered evidence:

(A) Admissible as an admission of a party.

(B) Admissible as res gestae.

(C) Inadmissible for public policy reasons.

(D) Inadmissible, because it would lead to the drawing of an inference on an inference.


\section{10} Pemberton's counsel seeks to introduce Helper's written statement that Edwards, Mammoth's driver, had left his glasses (required by his operator's license) at the truck stop which they had left five minutes before the accident. The judge should rule the statement admissible only if:

(A) Pemberton first proves that Helper is an agent of Mammoth and that the statement concerned a matter within the scope of his agency. (B) Pemberton produces independent evidence that Edwards was not wearing corrective lenses at the time of the accident.

(C) Helper is shown to be beyond the process of the court and unavailable to testify.

(D) The statement was under oath in affidavit form.


\section{11} Mammoth's counsel seeks to have Sheriff testify that while he was investigating the accident he was told by Pemberton, "This was probably our fault." The judge should rule the proffered evidence:

(A) Admissible as an admission of a party.

(B) Admissible, because it is a statement made to a police officer in the course of an official investigation.

(C) Inadmissible, because it is a mixed conclusion of law and fact.

(D) Inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

\section{Question 12}

In a contract suit between Terrell and Ward, Ward testified that he recalls having his first conversation with Terrell on January 3. When asked how he remembers the date, he answers, "In the conversation, Terrell referred to a story in that day's newspaper announcing my daughter's engagement." Terrell's counsel moves to strike the reference to the newspaper story.

The judge should:

(A) Grant the motion on the ground that the best evidence rule requires production of the newspaper itself.

(B) Grant the motion, because the reference to the newspaper story does not fit within any established exception to the hearsay rule. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

(C) Deny the motion on the ground that the court may take judicial notice of local newspapers and their contents.

(D) Deny the motion on the ground that a witness may refer to collateral documents without providing the documents themselves.

\section{Question 13}

In Peel's personal injury action, Wilson, a physician who had no previous knowledge of the matter, sat in court and heard all of the evidence about Peel's symptoms and conditions.

Wilson is called to give her opinion whether Peel's injuries are permanent. May Wilson so testify?

(A) Yes, provided she first identifies the data on which her opinion is based.

(B) Yes, because an expert may base her opinion on facts made known to her at the trial.

(C) No, because she has no personal knowledge of Peel's condition.

(D) No, because permanence of injury is an issue to be decided by the jury.



\section{Questions 14-15} are based on the following fact situation:

Rider, a bus passenger, sued Transit Company for injuries to his back from an accident caused by Transit's negligence. Transit denies that Rider received any injury in the accident.


\section{14} Rider's counsel seeks to introduce an affidavit he obtained in preparation for trial from Dr. Bond, who has since died. The affidavit avers that Dr. Bond examined Rider two days after the Transit Company accident and found him suffering from a recently incurred back injury. The judge should rule the affidavit:

(A) Admissible as a statement of present bodily condition made to a physician. (B) Admissible as prior recorded testimony.

(C) Inadmissible, because it is irrelevant.

(D) Inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception.


\section{15} Transit Company calls Observer to testify that right after the accident, Rider told him that he had recently suffered a recurrence of an old back injury. The judge should rule Observer's testimony:

(A) Admissible as an admission of a partyopponent.

(B) Admissible as a spontaneous declaration.

(C) Inadmissible, because it is irrelevant.

(D) Inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

\section{Question 16}

Patty sues Mart Department Store for personal injuries, alleging that while shopping she was knocked to the floor by a merchandise cart being pushed by Handy, a stock clerk, and that as a consequence her back was injured.

Handy testified that Patty fell near the cart but was not struck by it. Thirty minutes after Patty's fall, Handy, in accordance with regular practice at Mart, had filled out a printed form, "Employee's Report of Accident-Mart Department Store," in which he stated that Patty had been leaning over to spank her young child and in so doing had fallen near his cart. Counsel for Mart offers in evidence the report, which had been given him by Handy's supervisor.

The judge should rule the report offered by Mart:

(A) Admissible as res gestae.

(B) Admissible as a business record. (C) Inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

(D) Inadmissible, because Handy is available as a witness.

\section{Question 17}

Pace sues Def Company for injuries suffered when Pace's car collided with Def Company's truck. Def's general manager prepared a report of the accident at the request of the company's attorney, in preparation for the trial, and delivered the report to the attorney. Pace demands that the report be produced.

Will production of the report be required?
(A) Yes, because business reports are not generally privileged.
(B) No, because it is a privileged communica- tion from client to the attorney.
(C) No, because such reports contain hearsay.
(D) No, because such reports are self-serving.

\section{Question 18}

At the trial of Davis for a murder that occurred in Newtown, the prosecution called Waite, who testified that she saw Davis kill the victim. Davis believed that Waite was 600 miles away in Old Town, engaged in the illegal sale of narcotics, on the day in question. On crossexamination by Davis, Waite was asked whether she had in fact sold narcotics in Old Town on that date. Waite refused to answer on the ground of self-incrimination.

The judge, over the prosecutor's objection, ordered that if Waite did not testify, her direct testimony should be stricken.

The order to testify or have the testimony stricken can best be supported on the basis that:

(A) Waite had not been charged with any crime and, thus, could claim no privilege against self-incrimination. (B) Waite's proper invocation of the privilege prevented adequate cross-examination.

(C) The public interest in allowing an accused to defend himself or herself outweighs the interest of a nonparty witness in the privilege.

(D) The trial record, independent of testimony, does not establish that Waite's answer could incriminate her.

\section{Question 19}

Alex and Sam were arrested for holding up a gas station. They were taken to police headquarters and placed in a room for interrogation. As a police officer addressing both started to give them Miranda warnings prior to the questioning, Alex said, "Look, Sam planned the damned thing and I was dumb enough to go along with it. We robbed the place-what else is there to say?" Sam said nothing. Sam was escorted into another room and a full written confession was then obtained from Alex.

If Sam is brought to trial on an indictment charging him with robbery, the fact that Sam failed to object to Alex's statement and remained silent after Alex had implicated him in the crime should be ruled:

(A) Admissible, because his silence was an implied admission by Sam that he had participated in the crime.

(B) Admissible, because a statement of a participant in a crime is admissible against another participant.

(C) Inadmissible, because under the circumstances there was no duty or responsibility on Sam's part to respond.

(D) Inadmissible, because whatever Alex may have said has no probative value in a trial against Sam.

\section{Question 20}

Pack sued Donlon for slander, alleging that Donlon had publicly accused Pack of being a 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

thief. In his answer, Donlon admitted making the accusation, but alleged that it was a true statement.

At trial, Donlon offers evidence that Pack stole a ring worth \$ 10,000$ from a jewelry store.

Evidence concerning this theft should be:

(A) Admitted, because specific instances of conduct may be proved when character is directly in issue.

(B) Admitted, because Pack's actions constituted a felony.

(C) Excluded, because character must be shown by reputation or opinion.

(D) Excluded, because its relevance is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice.

\section{Question 21}

In a suit attacking the validity of a deed executed 15 years ago, Plaintiff alleges mental incompetency of Joe, the grantor, and offers in evidence a properly authenticated affidavit of Harry, Joe's brother. The affidavit, which was executed shortly after the deed, stated that Harry had observed Joe closely over a period of weeks, that Joe had engaged in instances of unusual behavior (which were described), and that Joe's appearance had changed from one of neatness and alertness to one of disorder and absentmindedness.

The judge should rule Harry's affidavit:
(A) Inadmissible as opinion.
(B) Inadmissible as hearsay not within any exception.
(C) Admissible as an official document.
(D) Admissible as an ancient document.

\section{Question 22}

Park brought an action against Dan for injuries received in an automobile accident, alleging negligence in that Dan was speeding and inattentive. Park calls White to testify that Dan had a reputation in the community of being a reckless driver and was known as "Daredevil Dan."

White's testimony is:

(A) Admissible as habit evidence.

(B) Admissible, because it tends to prove that Dan was negligent at the time of this collision.

(C) Inadmissible, because Dan has not offered testimony of his own good character.

(D) Inadmissible to show negligence.

\section{Question 23}

In Polk's negligence action against Dell arising out of a multiple-car collision, Witt testified for Polk that Dell went through a red light. On crossexamination, Dell seeks to question Witt about her statement that the light was yellow, made in a deposition that Witt gave in a separate action between Adams and Baker. The transcript of the deposition is self-authenticating.

On proper objection, the court should rule the inquiry:

(A) Admissible for impeachment only.

(B) Admissible as substantive evidence only.

(C) Admissible for impeachment and as substantive evidence.

(D) Inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception. 

\section{Questions 24-25} are based on the following fact situation:

Price sued Derrick for injuries Price received in an automobile accident. Price claimed Derrick was negligent in (a) exceeding the posted speed limit of 35 m.p.h., (b) failing to keep a lookout, and (c) crossing the center line.


\section{24} Bystander, Price's eyewitness, testified on cross-examination that Derrick was wearing a green sweater at the time of the accident. Derrick's counsel calls Wilson to testify that Derrick's sweater was blue. Wilson's testimony is:
(A) Admissible as substantive evidence of a material fact.
(B) Admissible as bearing on Bystander's truthfulness and veracity.
(C) Inadmissible, because it has no bear- ing on the capacity of Bystander to observe.
(D) Inadmissible, because it is extrinsic evidence of a collateral matter.


\section{25} Derrick testified in his own behalf that he was going 30 m.p.h. On cross-examination, Price's counsel did not question Derrick with regard to his speed. Subsequently, Price's counsel calls Officer to testify that, in his investigation following the accident, Derrick told him he was driving 40 m.p.h. Officer's testimony is:
(A) Admissible as a prior inconsistent statement.
(B) Admissible as an admission.
(C) Inadmissible, because it lacks a foundation.
(D) Inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

\section{Question 26}

Drew is charged with the murder of Pitt. The prosecutor introduced testimony of a police officer that Pitt told a priest administering the last rites, "I was stabbed by Drew. Since I am dying, tell him I forgive him." Thereafter, Drew's attorney offers the testimony of Wall that the day before, when Pitt believed he would live, he stated that he had been stabbed by Jack, an old enemy.

The testimony of Wall is:
(A) Admissible under an exception to the hearsay rule.
(B) Admissible to impeach the dead declarant.
(C) Inadmissible, because it goes to the ulti- mate issue in the case.
(D) Inadmissible, because irrelevant to any substantive issue in the case.

\section{Question 27}

Post sued Dean for personal injury alleged to have been caused by Dean's negligence. A major issue at trial was whether Post's disability was caused solely by trauma or by a preexisting condition of osteoarthritis.

Post called Dr. Cox, who testified that the disability was caused by trauma. On crossexamination, Dr. Cox testified that a medical textbook entitled Diseases of the Joints was authoritative and that she agreed with the substance of passages from the textbook that she was directed to look at, but that the passages were inapplicable to Post's condition because they dealt with rheumatoid arthritis rather than with the osteoarthritis that Post was alleged to have.

Dean then called his expert, Dr. Freed, who testified that, with reference to the issue being litigated, there is no difference between the two kinds of arthritis. Dean's counsel then asks permission to read to the jury the textbook passages earlier shown to Dr. Cox.

The judge should rule the textbook passages:

(A) Admissible only for the purpose of impeaching Cox. (B) Admissible as substantive evidence if the judge determines that the passages are relevant.

(C) Inadmissible, because they are hearsay not within any exception.

(D) Inadmissible, because Cox contended that they are not relevant to Post's condition.

\section{Question 28}

Pratt sued Danvers for injuries suffered by Pratt when their automobiles collided. At trial, Pratt offers into evidence a properly authenticated letter from Danvers that says, "Your claim seems too high, but, because I might have been a little negligent, I'm prepared to offer you half of what you ask."

The letter is:

(A) Admissible as an admission by a partyopponent.

(B) Admissible as a statement against pecuniary interest.

(C) Inadmissible, because Danvers's statement is lay opinion on a legal issue.

(D) Inadmissible, because Danvers's statement was made in an effort to settle the claim.

\section{Question 29}

Parker sued Dodd over title to an island in a river. Daily variations in the water level were important.

For many years Wells, a commercial fisherman, kept a daily log of the water level at his dock opposite the island in order to forecast fishing conditions. Parker employed Zee, an engineer, to prepare graphs from Wells's log.

Wells was called to testify to the manner in which he kept the log, which had been available for inspection. His testimony should be:

(A) Excluded on a general objection because not admissible for any purpose. (B) Excluded on a specific objection that it calls for hearsay.

(C) Admitted to support the credibility of Wells and Zee as witnesses.

(D) Admitted as part of the foundation for admission of Zee's graphs.

\section{Question 30}

Polk sued DeVore on a written contract. In her case-in-chief, DeVore testified that she withdrew from the contractual arrangement, as the contract permitted, by notifying Polk by means of a letter. She testified that she put the letter in an envelope, with proper postage, addressed to Polk at his place of business, and that she placed it in a United States Post Office mailbox.

In rebuttal, Polk testified that he got his mail each day from a locked post office box and that he had never received any such letter. There was no other evidence relating to receipt of the notice letter.

When the case is ready to go to the jury, the trial judge should:

(A) Withdraw from the jury's consideration the issue of whether Polk received the notice.

(B) Instruct the jury that it may presume that Polk received the notice.

(C) Instruct the jury that it should find that Polk received the notice.

(D) Submit the case to the jury without instruction concerning a presumption of receipt.

\section{Question 31}

Park sued Dent for breach of an oral contract which Dent denied making. Weston testified that he heard Dent make the contract on July 7. Dent discredited Weston, and Park offers evidence of Weston's good reputation for truthfulness. The rehabilitation is most likely to be permitted if the discrediting evidence by Dent was testimony that:

(A) Weston had been promoting highly speculative stocks.

(B) Weston had been Park's college roommate.

(C) Weston had attended a school for mentally retarded children.

(D) Weston had been out of town the whole week of July 4-10.

\section{Question 32}

In a will case, Paula seeks to prove her relationship to the testator Terrence by a statement in a deed of a gift from Terrence, "I transfer to my niece Paula ..." The deed was recorded pursuant to statute in the office of the county recorder and is kept there. Paula calls Recorder, who authenticates an enlarged print photocopy of the deed. The photocopy was made from the microfilm records kept in Recorder's office pursuant to statute.

The photocopy is:

(A) Admissible as a record of a document affecting an interest in property.

(B) Admissible as recorded recollection.

(C) Inadmissible as hearsay not within any recognized exception.

(D) Inadmissible as not the best evidence.

\section{Question 33}

Alice was held up at the point of a gun, an unusual revolver with a red-painted barrel, while she was clerking in a neighborhood grocery store. Dennis is charged with armed robbery of Alice.

The prosecutor calls Winthrop to testify that, a week after the robbery of Alice, he was robbed by Dennis with a pistol that had red paint on the barrel. Winthrop's testimony is:

(A) Admissible as establishing an identifying circumstance.

(B) Admissible as showing that Dennis was willing to commit robbery.

(C) Inadmissible, because it is improper character evidence.

(D) Inadmissible, because its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice.

\section{Question 34}

Darden was prosecuted for armed robbery. At trial, Darden testified in his own behalf, denying that he had committed the robbery. On crossexamination, the prosecutor intends to ask Darden whether he had been convicted of burglary six years earlier.

The question concerning the burglary conviction is:

(A) Proper if the court finds that the probative value for impeachment outweighs the prejudice to Darden.

(B) Proper, because the prosecutor is entitled to make this inquiry as a matter of right.

(C) Improper, because burglary does not involve dishonesty or false statement.

(D) Improper, because the conviction must be proved by court record, not by question on cross-examination. 

\section{EVIDENCE ANSWERS}

\section{Answer to Question 1}

(D) The testimony of Marks presents a problem of relevance. When evidence that relates to a time, event, or person other than the time, event, or persons directly involved in the controversy being litigated is offered, the relevance of that evidence is suspect. However, such evidence may be relevant if it is probative of the material issue involved, and if such probative value outweighs the risk of confusion or unfair prejudice. Specifically, the evidence being offered here is evidence of the absence of similar accidents. Many courts are reluctant to admit evidence of the absence of similar accidents or complaints to show absence of negligence, or lack of a defect. Thus, (D) correctly concludes that the testimony cannot be admitted to show that, at the time of Paula's injury, Lee was exercising due care. For the same reason, (B) is incorrect in stating that the evidence may be used to show that Lee was generally careful in maintaining the floor. (A) is incorrect because, if this type of evidence cannot be used to show that the defendant was not negligent, then it certainly cannot be used to show that the plaintiff was negligent. (C) is incorrect because the fact that evidence may be self-serving does not render it inadmissible; virtually all evidence is self-serving to its proponent, or else it would not be offered by that party.

\section{Answer to Question 2}

(A) The law encourages the repair of defective conditions that cause injury. Thus, evidence of repairs or other precautionary measures made following an injury is inadmissible to prove negligence or culpable conduct. However, such evidence may be admissible for other purposes. One such purpose is to show ownership or control, since it is unlikely that a stranger would make repairs. Here, Horne has denied that he had control of the hallway in which the injury occurred. Thus, evidence that he had a new floor covering placed in the hallway is relevant to show that he did in fact have control of the subject premises. This conclusion is accurately reflected in (A). (B) is incorrect because it points to precisely a reason why the evidence might not be admissible $($ i.e., it tries to use the evidence to show that Horne was negligent). (D) is incorrect because proof of ownership or control is, as detailed above, an exception to the general rule that evidence of subsequent repairs is inadmissible. Regarding $(\mathrm{C})$, we have already established that the evidence is admissible to show control. Whether the new floor covering is actually safer than the old will not change this result.

\section{Answer to Question 3}

(A) A witness may be interrogated upon cross-examination, in the discretion of the court, with respect to any act of misconduct that is probative of truthfulness, regardless of whether the witness was convicted as a result of the "bad act." Thus, (A) is correct. (B) is incorrect because, although it arrives at the correct conclusion that the question is proper, it incorrectly requires that the misconduct have resulted in a conviction. (C) is incorrect because impeachment may be based on specific acts of misconduct. (D) is incorrect because such specific acts of misconduct can only be elicited on cross-examination of the witness; extrinsic evidence is not permitted.

\section{Answer to Question 4}

(D) A witness may be interrogated upon cross-examination, in the discretion of the court, with respect to any act of misconduct that is probative of truthfulness, regardless of whether the witness was convicted as a result of the "bad act." Such specific act of misconduct can only be elicited on cross-examination of the witness. Extrinsic evidence is not permitted. Weld's testimony would constitute extrinsic evidence of a specific instance of misconduct. Thus, (D) is correct. It follows that (A) and (B) are incorrect. (C) is incorrect because there is no rule limiting cumulative impeachment. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

\section{Answer to Question 5}

(C) Hearsay is a statement, other than one made by the declarant while testifying at the trial or hearing, offered in evidence to prove the truth of the matter asserted. Bystander's testimony as to Passenger's statement is offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted therein; i.e., that Peters did not have his lights on and was thus contributorily negligent. Therefore, the statement is not admissible unless it comes within one of the hearsay exceptions. (A) is incorrect because Passenger is not a party, and there is no indication either that Peters adopted Passenger's statement or that Peters and Passenger had such a relationship that would render the statement a vicarious admission by Peters. (B) is incorrect because the statement against interest exception requires that the declarant be unavailable as a witness. Passenger does not appear to be unavailable. Also, the statement does not seem to be against the interest of Passenger (although it certainly is against the interest of Peters). (D) is incorrect because the matter is one about which laypersons regularly form opinions.

\section{Answer to Question 6}

(A) Witness's statement is hearsay but within the present sense impression exception to the hearsay rule. This exception comes into play when a person perceives some event that is not particularly shocking, yet that person nevertheless is moved to comment on what he perceived at the time of receipt of the sense impression or immediately thereafter. Here, the statement conveys what Witness perceived at the time of the accident; thus, it is allowed into evidence as a present sense impression. Because the statement falls within one of the hearsay exceptions, (C) is incorrect. (B) is incorrect because, for the present sense impression exception, the declarant's availability is immaterial. (D) is incorrect because a Dead Man's Statute prohibits testimony as to a personal transaction or communication with a decedent when such testimony is offered against the representative or successors in interest of the deceased. This question does not involve a suit against a decedent's estate.

\section{Answer to Question 7}

(C) A communication is confidential, for purposes of the attorney-client privilege, if it was not intended to be disclosed to third persons, other than those to whom disclosure would be in furtherance of the rendition of legal services to the client. Also, where a lawyer acts for two parties, the privilege can be claimed in a suit between either or both of the parties and third persons. Here, Attorney's investigator is someone to whom disclosure was in furtherance of the rendition of legal services. Thus, any statements made in Irving's presence will still be confidential. In addition, the fact that Owner made statements in the presence of a joint client does not deprive those statements of the protection of the attorney-client privilege. For these reasons, (A) is incorrect in holding the privilege inapplicable because of the presence of third persons in the conference. (B) is incorrect because Driver and Owner are both defendants in Litigant's suit, and communications made by joint clients are privileged as against third parties. (D) is incorrect because the best evidence rule does not apply to these facts. According to the rule, in proving the terms of a writing, where the terms are material, the original writing must be produced. Testimony is not offered here to prove the contents of Irving's notes.

\section{Answer to Question 8}

(A) Where a lawyer acts for joint clients, no privilege can be invoked in a suit between the two parties, as they could not have desired nor could they have expected confidentiality as between themselves in a joint consultation. There is a suit (a cross-claim) between Owner and Driver. Thus, in this suit, Owner cannot claim the privilege as to statements made during the joint conference. Therefore, (A) is correct. (B) is wrong because where a privilege attaches, the holder can prevent disclosure by anyone. $(\mathrm{C})$ is incorrect because the lack of confidentiality arises from the fact that the two litigants participated in a joint conference, rather than from the fact that the conference related to testimony to be given in open court. (D) reaches the incorrect conclusion that the testimony is inadmissible, because the privilege has not been waived. As explained above, the requisite confidentiality is missing.

\section{Answer to Question 9}

(C) Evidence of repairs or other precautionary measures made following an injury is inadmissible to prove negligence or culpable conduct. This is because public policy encourages people to make such repairs. Such evidence is admissible for other purposes, e.g., to prove ownership or control. Here, we are told that the issues involve negligence. Thus, the evidence as to the speed governor is being offered to prove culpable conduct or negligence, and therefore is inadmissible. (A) and (B) each incorrectly conclude that the evidence is admissible. (D) makes absolutely no sense.

\section{Answer to Question 10}

(A) The statement by Helper is one made by the declarant (Helper) other than while testifying at the trial, offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted (i.e., that Edwards was not wearing his glasses at the time of the accident). This presents a hearsay issue. However, an admission by a party-opponent is not considered hearsay under the Federal Rules. Here, the party-opponent is Mammoth Corporation, while the statement is by an employee of Mammoth. Statements by an agent concerning any matter within the scope of his agency, made during the course of the employment relationship, are not hearsay and are admissible against the principal. Thus, (A) correctly states that the statement is admissible only if Helper is an agent of Mammoth and the statement concerned a matter within the scope of the agency. (B) is incorrect because admissibility of the statement is not dependent on independent corroboration of the truth thereof. (C) is incorrect because unavailability of the declarant is not a prerequisite for an admission of a partyopponent. (D) is incorrect because an admission need not be under oath in order to be admissible.

\section{Answer to Question 11}

(A) As detailed in the answer to the preceding question, an admission by a party-opponent is nonhearsay under the Federal Rules. An admission is a statement made or act done that amounts to a prior acknowledgment by one of the parties of a relevant fact. Here, a fact in issue is whether Pemberton failed to yield the right of way. Pemberton's statement to Sheriff acknowledges fault. Thus, the testimony as to the statement is admissible as an admission by a party-opponent of Mammoth's. Because the evidence is not considered hearsay, (D) incorrectly concludes that it $i s$ hearsay. (B) is incorrect because statements made in such a manner may be inadmissible multiple hearsay. (C) is incorrect because the admissibility of the testimony centers on a party's admission of a relevant fact. The declarant's use of the word "fault," which may be a legal conclusion, does not affect the admissibility of the statement.

\section{Answer to Question 12}

(D) Pursuant to the best evidence rule, when proving the terms of a writing (where the terms are material), the original writing must be produced. The rule does not apply to writings of minor importance to the matter in controversy. Thus, a witness may refer to collateral documents 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

without providing the documents themselves. Here, the newspaper issue is tangential. As a result, there is no need to produce the newspaper. Therefore, (A) incorrectly concludes that the best evidence rule requires production of the newspaper. (B) is wrong because the newspaper story is not offered to prove the truth of its contents. (C) is incorrect because courts may take judicial notice of the existence of a local newspaper (a matter of common knowledge within the community) but not the contents of articles appearing therein.

\section{Answer to Question 13}

(B) An expert's opinion may be based upon one or more of three possible sources of information: (i) facts that he knows from his own observation; (ii) facts presented in evidence at the trial and submitted to the expert; or (iii) facts not in evidence that were supplied to the expert out of court, which facts are of a type reasonably relied upon by experts in the particular field in forming opinions on the subject. (B) correctly refers to (ii), above, as a proper source of information for the expert. (A) is incorrect because, where an expert bases her opinion on facts made known to her at the trial, the expert need not disclose the reasons for the opinion on direct examination unless the court orders it. $(C)$ is incorrect because, although personal observation is one of the sources upon which an expert opinion may be based, it is not the only such source. (D) is incorrect because permanence of injury is an issue that requires specialized knowledge to assist the jury.

\section{Answer to Question 14}

(D) The statement is inadmissible hearsay. Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered in evidence to prove the truth of the matter asserted. Here, the affidavit is being offered to prove that Rider incurred a recent back injury. Because Dr. Bond is dead, the adverse party is denied the opportunity to cross-examine him and test the veracity of his statement. Furthermore, the statement falls within no recognized exception to the hearsay rule. Thus, (D) is correct. (A) is incorrect because declarations of present bodily condition are statements made contemporaneously with the symptoms. Here, the affidavit was prepared later in contemplation of trial. It does not contain Rider's contemporaneous statements regarding his symptoms, but rather the physician's observation that Rider suffered from a recent back injury. Hence, the statement does not fall within the exception. (B) is incorrect because the former testimony exception requires that the statement be given during formal proceedings and under oath by a witness subject to cross-examination. (C) is incorrect because the statement relates to a time, event, or person in controversy. Whether Rider's back injury was an old or a recent injury is such a matter in controversy. Hence, the statement is relevant.

\section{Answer to Question 15}

(A) An admission by a party-opponent is considered nonhearsay under the Federal Rules. An admission is a statement that amounts to a prior acknowledgment by one of the parties to an action of one of the relevant facts. If the party said or did something inconsistent with his contentions at trial, the law regards him as estopped from preventing its admission into evidence. (A) is correct because Rider's statement that his back injury was a recurrence of an old injury is inconsistent with his assertion that the injury resulted from the recent accident. (B) is wrong because a spontaneous declaration (or "excited utterance") must concern the immediate facts of a startling occurrence. Rider's statement does not refer to the accident itself. Nor is it clear from the facts that the statement was made under the stress of the excitement. (C) is wrong because the statement relates to a time, event, or person in controversy (i.e., whether Rider's back injury resulted from Transit Company's negligence). Hence, it is relevant. (D) is wrong because (as noted in the discussion of option (A), above) an admission by a party-opponent is nonhearsay under the Federal Rules of Evidence.

\section{Answer to Question 16}

(C) The report is hearsay, as it is a statement, not made by the declarant while testifying at the trial, offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted. Thus, the report is inadmissible unless it comes within a hearsay exception. The only applicable exception is the business records exception, under which a writing or record made as a memorandum of any act, transaction, occurrence, or event is admissible as proof of such act, etc., if made in the regular course of a business, and if it was the regular course of such business to make it at the time of the act, or within a reasonable time thereafter. Many courts exclude self-serving employee accident reports that are prepared primarily for litigation by someone with a strong motive to misrepresent. Under the Federal Rules, courts have discretion to exclude a business record if the source of information indicates a lack of trustworthiness. The report at issue was prepared primarily for litigation purposes by Handy, who had a strong motive to misrepresent the facts. Therefore, the report is sufficiently lacking in trustworthiness so as to not qualify for admission as a business record. Because the report is inadmissible, (A) and (B) are incorrect for concluding that it is admissible. (D) is incorrect because unavailability is not germane to the business records exception.

\section{Answer to Question 17}

(B) Communications between attorney and client, made during professional consultation, are privileged from disclosure. A business report prepared as a communication from client to attorney is privileged. Here, Def's general manager prepared the report at the request of the company's attorney. This report constitutes a privileged, confidential communication between a client (Def Company) and its attorney. Therefore, production of the report will not be required. (A) is incorrect because the facts indicate that this particular business report is of a privileged nature. $(\mathrm{C})$ and (D) are wrong because the fact that a report contains hearsay or is self-serving does not prevent its discovery by the opponent.

\section{Answer to Question 18}

(B) Waite's invocation of the privilege meant that Davis could not cross-examine her on a critical issue in the case. If Waite actually was in Old Town, she could not have witnessed the murder, and her testimony would be impeached. Because she cannot be adequately cross-examined on this matter, her testimony should be stricken in its entirety. (A) is wrong because it is not necessary for a person to have been charged with a crime in order to claim a privilege against selfincrimination. (C) is wrong because a non-party's privileges are not outweighed by the rights of the accused. (D) is wrong because it is not necessary for one claiming a privilege against selfincrimination to establish that she would actually be self-incriminated by her testimony.

\section{Answer to Question 19}

(C) Under the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution, a witness cannot be compelled to testify against himself. A prosecutor may not comment on a defendant's silence after being arrested and receiving Miranda warnings. The warnings carry an implicit assurance that silence will carry no penalty. Thus, Sam's silence after Alex's incriminating statement is inadmissible against Sam and (C) is correct. It follows that (A) is incorrect. The self-incrimination privilege negates the "adoptive admission" doctrine, and failure to reply to an accusation or statement 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

made by police in a criminal case can almost never be used as an implied admission of a criminal act. (B) is wrong because the statement is overbroad, and because the issue of admissibility involves Sam's silence (which is protected by the Fifth Amendment) rather than Alex's confession. (D) is an incorrect statement of fact. Alex's statement relates to a time, person, or event in controversy, and thus is relevant and obviously has probative value. However, the issue of admissibility in this question involves Sam's silence and not Alex's statement. Thus, option (D) is unresponsive to the call of the question.

\section{Answer to Question 20}

(A) Evidence concerning the theft should be admitted because specific instances of conduct may be proved when character is directly in issue. Although character evidence, including evidence of specific acts, is generally inadmissible in a civil case, there is an exception where character is directly in issue. In defamation cases, character is always in issue, and evidence is admissible on the trait in question. Here, the issue is whether Pack is a thief. Evidence of acts of theft by Pack are admissible. (B) is wrong because whether the act is a felony is only important if it is offered as a prior conviction to attack the character for truthfulness of a testifying witness. Any act of theft, felony or misdemeanor, would be admissible here to show that Pack is a thief; it is not being offered for impeachment purposes. (C) is incorrect because, under the Federal Rules, any of the types of character evidence (reputation, opinion, or specific acts) may be used to prove character when character is directly in issue. (D) is wrong because the evidence is central to the ultimate issue in the case-the truth of Donlon's statement. Its relevance could not be greater and could not be substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice.

\section{Answer to Question 21}

(B) Harry's affidavit is inadmissible. Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered in evidence to prove the truth of the matter asserted. Here, the affidavit is an out-of-court statement Plaintiff seeks to introduce to prove that Joe was incompetent when he conveyed the property. Hence, it is hearsay. The affidavit does not fall within any recognized exception to the hearsay rule. Hence, (B) is correct. (A) is wrong because opinion testimony by lay witnesses is admissible when: (i) it is rationally based on the perception of the witness; and (ii) it is helpful to a clear understanding of testimony or to the determination of a fact in issue. Opinions of laypersons as to the general appearance or condition of a person are generally admissible. The problem here does not involve "opinion," but rather the fact that the affidavit is hearsay. (C) is wrong because the affidavit does not qualify as an official document. The official records exception to the hearsay rule covers records, reports, statements, or data compilations of public offices and agencies made by, and within the scope of duty of, the public employee. Harry and his affidavit have no such official standing. (D) is wrong because the affidavit is 15 years old, and the Federal Rules of Evidence require that a document be at least 20 years old to qualify as an "ancient document." (It should also be noted that statements affecting an interest in property are not subject to the 20 -year rule. However, the affidavit is not a deed, a will, or a document that otherwise disposes of property. Therefore, it does not qualify under the exception.)

\section{Answer to Question 22}

(D) White's testimony is inadmissible to show negligence. Evidence of character to prove the conduct of a person in the litigated event is generally not admissible in civil cases, because the slight probative value of character is outweighed by the danger of prejudice, the possible distraction of the jury from the main question in issue, and the possible waste of time required by examination of collateral issues. There is an exception to this general rule when a person's character itself is one of the issues in the case. Here, Dan's character is not in issue. Thus, the general rule applies, and (D) is correct. (A) is incorrect because habit describes one's regular response to a specific set of circumstances. Here, however, what is involved is character evidence rather than habit evidence. Character describes one's disposition in respect to general traits (i.e., Dan's reputation in the community as a reckless driver). (B) is wrong because reputation evidence in civil cases is admitted only for the purpose of proving character. Negligence of Dan on a particular occasion does not raise character issues. (C) is wrong because it applies the general rule for criminal cases, and the case in question is a civil one.

\section{Answer to Question 23}

(C) Under Federal Rule 801(d)(1), Witt's statement made in the earlier deposition is considered nonhearsay as a prior inconsistent statement made by a witness while testifying under oath at some prior proceeding, and thus is admissible as substantive proof. It can be admitted for impeachment purposes so long as a proper foundation is laid. Federal Rule 613 requires that the witness must be first examined "so as to give him an opportunity to explain or deny" the allegedly inconsistent statement unless "the interests of justice otherwise require." (A) is wrong because this was a former statement made under oath, is considered not to be hearsay, and is admissible as substantive proof. (B) is wrong because so long as a proper foundation is laid, it can be introduced for impeachment purposes as well. (D) is wrong because it is not hearsay.

\section{Answer to Question 24}

(D) Where a witness makes a statement not directly relevant to the issues in the case, the opponent is barred from proving the statement untrue either by extrinsic contradictory facts or by a prior inconsistent statement. The color of the sweater worn by Derrick is collateral to the issues in this case. Thus, allowing testimony contradicting Bystander's testimony on this matter would raise the possibility of unfair surprise, confusion of issues, and inefficient use of the court's time. For these reasons, Wilson's testimony is inadmissible. (A) is wrong because nothing in the facts indicates that the color of Derrick's sweater is of consequence to the action. (B) and (C) are wrong because even if the evidence has some bearing on the witness's credibility, it is excluded because of possible confusion of issues or waste of time.

\section{Answer to Question 25}

(B) The statement made by Derrick to Officer is an admission by a party-opponent (i.e., a statement that amounts to a prior acknowledgment by a party of one of the relevant facts). We are told that the rate of speed at which Derrick was traveling is in issue. Thus, Derrick's statement that he was driving 40 m.p.h. comes in as an admission. (D) is wrong because, under the Federal Rules, an admission is not hearsay. (A) is wrong because an admission is admissible whether or not it discredits later testimony. (C) is wrong because no foundation is necessary for the admission into evidence of an admission by a party-opponent.

\section{Answer to Question 26}

(B) Where an out-of-court statement is admitted into evidence under one of the exceptions to the sible if the declarant had testified. The testimony of Wall is admissible to show that Pitt made a statement that was inconsistent with the statement related by the police officer. (A) is incorrect because impeachment evidence is excluded from the hearsay rule. (C) refers to the traditional 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

rule prohibiting expert witnesses from expressing opinions on the ultimate issue in the case. This rule has been repudiated by the Federal Rules. Also, this case does not involve expert testimony. In addition, the testimony does not relate an opinion. For these reasons, (C) is incorrect. (D) is wrong because Pitt's credibility is crucial to Drew's culpability.

\section{Answer to Question 27}

(B) The Federal Rules allow for substantive admissibility of learned treatises, if such treatises are called to the attention of the expert witness upon cross-examination or relied upon by her during direct examination and they are established as reliable authority by the testimony or admission of the witness, or by other expert testimony, or by judicial notice. This is an exception to the hearsay rule. Here, the medical textbook was called to the attention of Dr. Cox on cross-examination, and she testified that it was authoritative. Thus, the passages from the textbook are admissible as substantive evidence. It logically follows that (A) and (C) are incorrect. (D) is incorrect because it is not Dr. Cox's job to determine the relevancy of proffered evidence.

\section{Answer to Question 28}

(D) Evidence of compromises or offers to compromise a claim disputed as to either liability or damages is inadmissible to prove liability for or invalidity of a claim. Also, any conduct or statement made in the course of negotiating a compromise is inadmissible. It follows that (A) and (B) are incorrect. (C) is incorrect because, were it not for the rule excluding offers of compromise, the statement would be an admission of a party-opponent. Such an admission can be in the form of an opinion.

\section{Answer to Question 29}

(D) Zee's graphs are demonstrative evidence, offered to illustrate the daily variations in water level at issue here. Because the graphs are reproductions of the data contained in Wells's log, Wells's testimony regarding the compilation of the log is necessary to determine whether the graphs are based on a foundation strong enough to justify their admission into evidence. It follows that (A) is incorrect. (B) is incorrect because this is not hearsay. Wells is going to testify to the manner in which he kept the log, not to an out-of-court statement offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted. (C) is incorrect because, generally, credibility may not be bolstered until it has been impeached.

\section{Answer to Question 30}

(D) A letter shown to have been properly addressed, stamped, and mailed is presumed to have been delivered in the due course of mail. Under the Federal Rules, such a presumption is overcome when the party against whom it is directed produces sufficient evidence contradicting the presumed fact. Here, DeVore's testimony raises a presumption of due delivery of the notice letter. However, Polk, by his testimnny bas nradinen. anninh avi Amante the jury must determine questions of fact, such as whether Polk received the notice. $(B)$ is incorrect because, as explained above, there is no longer a presumption that Polk received the notice. (C) is incorrect because it goes even further than to call for a presumption. Rather, it calls for a "conclusive" presumption, which cannot be rebutted by contrary evidence. Such a presumption runs afoul of the Federal Rules, which permit a presumption to be rebutted. 

\section{Answer to Question 31}

(D) A witness's good reputation for truth and veracity may be shown after attack. However, only under certain circumstances will it be proper. (A) is not correct because selling speculative stocks does not need the response of good reputation for truth. (B) is not correct because good reputation for truth and veracity does not refute bias. (C) is not correct since attending a school for the mentally retarded does not go to credibility. (D) is a fundamental attack going to the credibility of Weston's entire testimony. It is thus the best answer.

\section{Answer to Question 32}

(A), (C) (A) and (C) were both given credit by the examiners. (B) is wrong because for past recollection recorded there must be a record made at or near the event by someone with firsthand knowledge who has no present recollection but who can say it was accurate when written. That is not present here. (D) is wrong because the best evidence rule requires the production of the original unless it is accounted for. Photocopies would be admissible, absent a genuine dispute about the authenticity of the original or other unfairness. Either (A) or (C) could be correct depending upon interpretation. This is a document affecting an interest in property. Statements in documents affecting an interest in property are admissible if they are "relevant to the purpose of the document." If one interprets the statement that the recipient of the deed of gift is related to the donor to be "relevant to the purpose of the document," then (A) would be correct. If not, then (C) would be correct.

\section{Answer to Question 33}

(A) Other crimes or wrongs are not generally admissible. They may be shown, however, to prove identity (among a few other relevant things). Other crimes are admissible on identity only when they are highly individual and amount to a "signature." Red paint on a gun is individual enough to qualify. Thus, (A) is right and (D) is wrong. (B) is an incorrect theory. Having a red gun does not show anything about the defendant's willingness to commit a crime. (C) is wrong, too. This is not character evidence.

\section{Answer to Question 34}

(A) The Federal Rules allow impeachment by: (i) any felony conviction, if the trial judge decides that the probative value of the conviction outweighs its prejudicial effect; and (ii) conviction of any other crime requiring proof or admission of an act of dishonesty or false statement. The prior conviction may be shown either by cross-examination of the witness or by introducing a record of the judgment. It follows that (D) is incorrect. (C) is incorrect because impeachment may be accomplished by showing any felony conviction (if the probative value outweighs the prejudicial effect), not just by showing conviction of crimes involving dishonesty or false statement. (B) is incorrect because it fails to account for the need to find that the probative value outweighs the prejudicial effect. 

\section{REAL PROPERTY QUESTIONS}