\section{Questions 1-2} are based on the following fact situation:

Innes worked as a secretary in an office in a building occupied partly by her employer and partly by Glass, a retail store. The two areas were separated by walls and were in no way connected, except that the air conditioning unit served both areas and there was a common return-air duct.

Glass began remodeling, and its employees did the work, which included affixing a plastic surfacing material to counters. To fasten the plastic to the counters, the employees purchased glue, with the brand name Stick, that was manufactured by Steel, packaged in a sealed container by Steel, and retailed by Paint Company.

In the course of the remodeling job, one of Glass's employees turned on the air conditioning and caused fumes from the glue to travel from Glass through the air conditioning unit and into Innes's office. The employees did not know that there was common ductwork for the air conditioners. Innes was permanently blinded by the fumes from the glue.

The label on the container of glue read, "DANGER. Do not smoke near this product. Extremely flammable. Contains Butanone, Toluol, and Hexane. Use with adequate ventilation. Keep out of the reach of children."

The three chemicals listed on the label are very toxic and harmful to human eyes. Steel had received no reports of eye injuries during the 10 years that the product had been manufactured and sold.


\section{1} If Innes asserts a claim against Paint Company, the most likely result is that she will:

(A) Recover if she can recover against Steel.

(B) Recover, because Innes was an invitee of a tenant in the building. (C) Not recover, unless Paint Company was negligent.

(D) Not recover, because the glue came in a sealed package.


\section{2} If Innes asserts a claim against Glass, the most likely result is that she will:

(A) Recover, because a user of a product is held to the same standard as the manufacturer.

(B) Recover, because the employees of Glass caused the fumes to enter her area of the building.

(C) Not recover, because Glass used the glue for its intended purpose.

(D) Not recover, because the employees of Glass had no reason to know that the fumes could injure Innes.



\section{Questions 3-4} are based on the following fact situation:

When Denton heard that his neighbor, Prout, intended to sell his home to a minority purchaser, Denton told Prout that Prout and his wife and children would meet with "accidents" if he did so. Prout then called the prospective purchaser and told him that he was taking the house off the market.


\section{3} If Prout asserts a claim against Denton for assault, Prout will:

(A) Recover if Denton intended to place Prout in fear of physical harm.

(B) Recover, because Denton's conduct was extreme and outrageous.

(C) Not recover if Denton took no action that threatened immediate physical harm to Prout.

(D) Not recover, because Prout's action removed any threat of harmful force. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}


\section{4} If Prout asserts a claim against Denton for intentional infliction of emotional distress, Prout will:

(A) Recover if Prout suffered severe emotional distress as a consequence of Denton's conduct.

(B) Recover, because Denton intended to frighten Prout.

(C) Not recover, because Denton made no threat of immediate physical harm to Prout or his family.

(D) Not recover if Prout suffered no physical harm as a consequence of Denton's conduct.

\section{Question 5}

Doctor, a licensed physician, resided in her own home. The street in front of the home had a gradual slope. Doctor's garage was on the street level, with a driveway entrance from the street.

At two in the morning, Doctor received an emergency call. She dressed and went to the garage to get her car and found a car parked in front of her driveway. That car was occupied by Parker, who, while intoxicated, had driven to that place and now was in a drunken stupor in the front seat. Unable to rouse Parker, Doctor pushed him into the passenger's side of the front seat and got in on the driver's side. Doctor released the brake and coasted the car down the street, planning to pull into a parking space that was open. When Doctor attempted to stop the car, the brakes failed to work, and the car crashed into the wall of Owner's home, damaging Owner's home and Parker's car and injuring Doctor and Parker. Subsequent examination of the car disclosed that the brake linings were badly worn. A state statute prohibits the operation of a motor vehicle unless the brakes are capable of stopping the vehicle within specified distances at specified speeds. The brakes on Parker's car were incapable of stopping the vehicle within the limits required by the statute. Another state statute makes it a criminal offense to be intoxicated while driving a motor vehicle. The state follows traditional contributory negligence rules.

If Parker asserts a claim against Doctor for his injuries, Parker will probably:

(A) Recover, because Doctor was negligent as a matter of law.

(B) Recover, because Doctor had no right to move the car.

(C) Not recover, because his brakes were defective.

(D) Not recover, because he was in a drunken stupor when injured.

\section{Question 6}

Construction Company contracted to build a laundry for Wash Company on the latter's vacant lot in a residential area. As a part of its work, Construction Company dug a trench from the partially completed laundry to the edge of a public sidewalk; waterlines were to be installed in the trench. Because of the contour of the land, the trench was dug to a depth ranging from seven to nine feet. Construction Company did not place any barriers around the trench and permitted it to lie open for almost a week while waiting for the delivery of water pipes. This was known to Wash Company, but it raised no objection.

During the time the trench was open, a series of heavy rains fell, causing five feet of surface water to gather in the bottom of the trench. While this condition existed, five-year-old Tommy, who was playing on the vacant lot with friends, stumbled and fell into the trench. Robert, an adult passerby, saw this and immediately lowered himself into the trench to rescue Tommy. However, his doing so caused the rain-soaked walls of the trench to collapse, killing both him and Tommy.

In a claim for wrongful death by Tommy's administrator against Construction Company, the most likely result is that plaintiff will: (A) Recover, because the defendant left the open trench unprotected.

(B) Recover, because construction companies are strictly liable for inherently dangerous conditions.

(C) Not recover, because Tommy was a trespasser.

(D) Not recover, because Tommy's death was a result of the collapse of the trench, an independent intervening cause.

\section{Question 7}

Philip was a 10-year-old boy. Macco was a company that sold new and used machinery. Macco stored discarded machinery, pending sale for scrap, on a large vacant area it owned. This area was unfenced and was one-quarter mile from the housing development where Philip lived. Macco knew that children frequently played in this area and on the machinery. Philip's parents had directed him not to play on the machinery because it was dangerous.

One day Philip was playing on a press in Macco's storage area. The press had several wheels, each geared to the other. Philip climbed on the largest wheel, which was about five feet in diameter. Philip's weight caused the wheel to rotate, his foot was caught between two wheels that were set into motion, and he was severely injured.

A claim for relief was asserted by Philip through a duly appointed guardian. Macco denied liability and pleaded Philip's contributory fault as a defense.

In determining whether Macco breached a duty to Philip, which of the following is the most significant?

(A) Whether the press on which Philip was injured was visible from a public way.

(B) Whether the maintenance of the area for the storage of discarded machinery was a private nuisance. (C) Whether the maintenance of the area of the storage of discarded machinery was a public nuisance.

(D) Whether Macco could have eliminated the risk of harm without unduly interfering with Macco's normal operations.

\section{Question 8}

Householder hired Contractor to remodel Householder's kitchen. She had learned of him through a classified advertisement he placed in the local newspaper. During the telephone conversation in which she hired him, he stated he was experienced and qualified to do all necessary work. Because of his low charge for his work, they agreed in writing that on acceptance of his job by Householder, he would have no further liability to her or to anyone else for any defects in materials or workmanship, and that she would bear all such costs.

Householder purchased a dishwasher manufactured by Elex Company from Dealer, who was in the retail electrical appliance business. The washer was sold by Dealer with only the manufacturer's warranty and with no warranty by Dealer; Elex Company restricted its warranty to 90 days on parts and labor. Contractor installed the dishwasher.

Two months after Householder accepted the entire job, she was conversing in her home with Accountant, an acquaintance who had agreed to prepare her income tax return gratuitously. As they talked, they noticed that the dishwasher was operating strangely, repeatedly stopping and starting. At Householder's request, Accountant gave it a cursory examination and, while inspecting it, received a violent electrical shock which did him extensive harm. The dishwasher had an internal wiring defect that allowed electrical current to be carried into the framework and caused the machine to malfunction. The machine had not been adequately grounded by Contractor during installation; if it had been, the current would have been led harmlessly away. The machine carried instructions for correct grounding, which Contractor had not followed. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

If Accountant asserts a claim based on strict liability against Elex Company for damages, the probable result is that Accountant will:

(A) Recover, because the dishwasher was defectively made.

(B) Recover, because Elex Company is vicariously liable for the improper installation.

(C) Not recover, because he assumed the risk by inspecting the machine.

(D) Not recover, because he was not the purchaser.

\section{Question 9}

Diner, a drive-in hamburger and ice cream stand, recently opened for business in the suburban town of Little City. Diner's business hours are from 9 a.m. to midnight. It is in an area that for 15 years has been zoned for small retail businesses, apartment buildings, and one- and two-family residences. The zoning code specifies that "small retail businesses" include "businesses where food and drink are dispensed for consumption on the premises." Diner was the first drive-in in Little City. For seven years Mr. and Mrs. Householder have owned and lived in their single-family residence, which is across the street from Diner.

On opening day a brass band played in the parking lot of Diner until midnight, and the noise of cars and the usual activity as a result of the new business prevented the Householders from getting to sleep until well after midnight, long after their usual time. Diner is heavily patronized during the day and night by high school students. The noise of cars, the lights of the cars, the lights illuminating the parking lot at Diner, and the noise from the loudspeaker of the ordering system prevented the Householders from sleeping before midnight. Paper cups, napkins, and other items from the drive-in are regularly blown into the Householders's front yard by the prevailing wind. The traffic to and from Diner is so heavy on the street in front of their house that the Householders are afraid to allow their small children to play in the front yard.

The Householders have asserted a claim against Diner based on private nuisance.

The most likely effect of the fact that the Householders were in the area before Diner is that it:

(A) Requires that the Householders' interest be given priority.

(B) Is irrelevant because of the zoning ordinance.

(C) Is irrelevant because conforming economic uses are given priority.

(D) Is some, but not controlling, evidence.



\section{Questions 10-11} are based on the following fact situation:

In City of State Y, Maple Street is a local public thoroughfare, designated as a one-way street for northbound traffic. Pine Street is a public thoroughfare, designated as a one-way street for eastbound traffic. Maple and Pine Streets intersect at right angles. The intersection is controlled by traffic lights. There are two sets of lights, one at the northeast corner and one at the northwest corner, for traffic on Maple Street. There are two sets of lights, one at the northeast corner and one at the southeast corner, for traffic on Pine Street.

Trucker was making a delivery to a market on the east side of Maple Street, just north of its intersection with Pine Street. There being insufficient space for his truck and enclosed trailer, he parked it with the rear of the trailer extending entirely across the crosswalk on the north side of the intersection. The height of the trailer was such that it entirely obscured the traffic light on the northeast corner from the view of traffic moving east on Pine Street. Unknown to Trucker, the traffic light at the southeast corner was not functioning, because a collision 72 hours earlier had knocked down the pole from which the light was suspended. Visitor, on his first trip to City, was driving east on Pine Street. Not seeing any traffic light or pole, he entered the intersection at a time when the light was red for eastbound traffic and green for northbound traffic. Driver, proceeding north on Maple Street and seeing the green light, entered the intersection without looking for any cross traffic and struck Visitor's car. Driver received personal injuries, and Visitor's car was damaged severely as a result of the impact.

Statutes of State Y make it a misdemeanor (1) to park a motor vehicle so that any part projects into a crosswalk and (2) to enter an intersection contrary to a traffic signal.




\section{10} If Driver asserts a claim against Trucker and establishes that Trucker was negligent, the likely result is that Trucker's negligence is:
(A) A legal but not an actual cause of Driver's injuries.
(B) An actual but not a legal cause of Driver's injuries.
(C) Both an actual and a legal cause of Driver's injuries.

(D) Neither an actual nor a legal cause of Driver's injuries.


\section{11} If Driver asserts a claim against City, the theory on which he has the best chance of prevailing is that City:
(A) Is strictly liable for harm caused by a defective traffic signal.
(B) Was negligent in not replacing the broken pole within 72 hours.
(C) Had an absolute duty to maintain installed signals in good operating order.
(D) Created a dangerous trap by not promptly replacing the broken pole.

\section{Question 12}

Henry hated Wanda, his former wife, for divorcing him and marrying John a short time thereafter. About a month after Wanda married John, Henry secretly entered Wanda and John's rented apartment during their absence by using a master key. Henry placed a microphone behind the bookstand in the bedroom of the apartment and drilled a hole in the nearby wall, with the result that the microphone appeared to be connected with wires going into the adjoining apartment. Actually, the microphone was not connected to anything. Henry anticipated that Wanda would discover the microphone in a few days and would be upset by the thought that someone had been listening to her conversations with John in their bedroom.

Shortly thereafter, as he was putting a book on the stand, John noticed the wires behind the bookstand and discovered the hidden microphone. He then called Wanda and showed her the microphone and wires. Wanda fainted and, in falling, struck her head on the bookstand and suffered a mild concussion. The next day John telephoned Henry and accused him of planting the microphone. Henry laughingly admitted it. Because of his concern about Wanda and his anger at Henry, John is emotionally upset and unable to go to work. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

If Wanda asserts a claim against Henry based on infliction of mental distress, the fact that John was the person who showed her the microphone will:

(A) Relieve Henry of liability, because John was careless in so doing.

(B) Relieve Henry of liability, because John's conduct was the immediate cause of Wanda's harm.

(C) Not relieve Henry of liability, because Henry's goal was achieved.

(D) Not relieve Henry of liability, because the conduct of a third person is irrelevant in emotional distress cases.



\section{Questions 13-14} are based on the following fact situation:

Peter was rowing a boat on a mountain lake when a storm suddenly arose. Fearful that the boat might sink, Peter rowed to a boat dock on shore and tied the boat to the dock. The shore property and dock were the private property of Owner.

While the boat was tied at the dock, Owner came down and ordered Peter to remove the boat because the action of the waves was causing the boat to rub against a bumper on the dock. When Peter refused, Owner untied the boat and cast it adrift. The boat sank.

Peter was wearing a pair of swimming trunks and nothing else. He had a pair of shoes and a parka in the boat, but they were lost when Owner set it adrift. Peter was staying at a cabin one mile from Owner's property. The only land routes back were a short rocky trail that was dangerous during the storm, and a 15-mile road around the lake. The storm continued with heavy rain and hail, and Peter, having informed Owner of the location of his cabin, asked Owner to take him back there in Owner's car. Owner said, "You got here by yourself and you'll have to get back home yourself." After one hour the storm stopped, and Peter walked home over the trail. 13. A necessary element in determining if Peter is liable for a trespass is whether:

(A) Owner had clearly posted his property with a sign indicating that it was private property.

(B) Peter knew that the property belonged to a private person.

(C) Peter had reasonable grounds to believe the property belonged to a private person.

(D) Peter had reasonable grounds to believe his boat might be swamped and might sink.


\section{14} If Peter asserts a claim against Owner for loss of the boat, the most likely result is that Owner will:
(A) Have no defense under the circum- stances.
(B) Prevail, because Peter was a trespasser ab initio.
(C) Prevail, because the boat might have damaged the dock.
(D) Prevail, because Peter became a trespasser when he refused to remove the boat.



\section{Questions 15-16} are based on the following fact situation:

Dave is a six-year-old boy who has a welldeserved reputation for bullying younger and smaller children. His parents have encouraged him to be aggressive and tough. Dave, for no reason, knocked down, kicked, and severely injured Pete, a four-year-old. A claim has been asserted by Pete's parents for their medical and hospital costs and for Pete's injuries.


\section{15} If the claim is asserted against Dave's parents, the most likely result is they will be: (A) Liable, because parents are strictly liable for the torts of their children.

(B) Liable, because Dave's parents encouraged him to be aggressive and tough.

(C) Not liable, because a child under seven is not liable in tort.

(D) Not liable, because parents cannot be held liable for the tort of a child.


\section{16} If the claim is asserted against Dave, the most likely result is Dave will be:
(A) Liable, because he intentionally harmed Pete.
(B) Liable, because, as a six-year-old, he should have known his conduct was wrongful.
(C) Not liable, because a child under seven is not liable in tort.
(D) Not liable, because he is presumed to be under his parents' control and they have the sole responsibility.



\section{Questions 17-18} are based on the following fact situation:

Mrs. Ritter, a widow, recently purchased a new uncrated electric range for her kitchen from Local Retailer. The range has a wide oven with a large oven door. The crate in which Stove Company, the manufacturer, shipped the range carried a warning label that the stove would tip over with a weight of 25 pounds or more on the oven door. Mrs. Ritter has one child-Brenda, age three. Recently, at about 5:30 p.m., Brenda was playing on the floor of the kitchen while Mrs. Ritter was heating water in a pan on the stove. The telephone rang and Mrs. Ritter went into the living room to answer it. While she was gone Brenda decided to find out what was cooking. She opened the oven door and climbed on it to see what was in the pan. Brenda's weight ( 25 pounds) on the door caused the stove to tip over forward. Brenda fell to the floor and the hot water spilled over her, burning her severely. Brenda screamed. Mrs. Ritter ran to the kitchen and immediately gave her first aid treatment for burns. Brenda thereafter received medical treatment.

Brenda's burns were painful. They have now healed and do not bother her, but she has ugly scars on her legs and back. Brenda's claim is asserted on her behalf by the proper party.


\section{17} If Brenda asserts a claim based on strict liability against Local Retailer, she must establish that:

(A) Local Retailer did not inform Mrs. Ritter of the warning on the crate.

(B) The stove was substantially in the same condition at the time it tipped over as when it was purchased from Local Retailer.

(C) Local Retailer made some change in the stove design or had improperly assembled it so that it tipped over more easily.

(D) Local Retailer knew or should have known that the stove was dangerous because of the ease with which it tipped over.


\section{18} If Brenda asserts a claim based on strict liability against Stove Company, she must establish that:
(A) The defendant negligently designed the stove.
(B) Stoves made by other manufacturers do not turn over with a 25-pound weight on the oven door.
(C) The defendant failed to warn the Ritters that the stove would turn over easily.
(D) The stove was defective and unreason- ably dangerous to her. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

\section{Question 19}

Paulsen was eating in a restaurant when he began to choke on a piece of food that had lodged in his throat. Dow, a physician who was sitting at a nearby table, did not wish to become involved and did not render any assistance, although prompt medical attention would have been effective in removing the obstruction from Paulsen's throat. Because of the failure to obtain prompt medical attention, Paulsen suffered severe brain injury from lack of oxygen.

If Paulsen asserts a claim against Dow for his injuries, will Paulsen prevail?

(A) Yes, if the jurisdiction relieves physicians of malpractice liability for emergency first aid.

(B) Yes, if a reasonably prudent person with Dow's experience, training, and knowledge would have assisted Paulsen.

(C) No, because Dow was not responsible for Paulsen's condition.

(D) No, unless Dow knew that Paulsen was substantially certain to sustain serious injury.



\section{Questions 20-21} are based on the following fact situation:

Parents purchased a new mobile home from Seller. The mobile home was manufactured by Mobilco and had a ventilating system designed by Mobilco with both a heating unit and an air conditioner. Mobilco installed a furnace manufactured by Heatco and an air conditioning unit manufactured by Coolco. Each was controlled by an independent thermostat installed by Mobilco. Because of the manner in which Mobilco designed the ventilating system, the first time the ventilating system was operated by Parents, cold air was vented into Parents' bedroom to keep the temperature at $68^{\circ}$ $\mathrm{F}\left(20^{\circ} \mathrm{C}\right)$. The cold air then activated the heater thermostat, and hot air was pumped into the bedroom of Child, the six-month-old child of Parents. The temperature in Child's room reached more than $170^{\circ} \mathrm{F}\left(77^{\circ} \mathrm{C}\right)$ before Child's mother became aware of the condition and shut the system off manually. As a result, Child suffered permanent physical injury.

Claims have been asserted by Child, through a duly appointed guardian, against Mobilco, Seller, Heatco, and Coolco.


\section{20} If Child's claim against Seller is based on negligence, the minimum proof necessary to establish Seller's liability is that the ventilating system:

(A) Was defective.

(B) Was defective and had not been inspected by Seller.

(C) Was defective and had been inspected by Seller, and the defect was not discovered.

(D) Was defective, and the defect would have been discovered if Seller had exercised reasonable care in inspecting the system.


\section{21} If Child's claims against Mobilco, Heatco, and Coolco are based on strict liability in tort, Child will probably recover against:

(A) Mobilco only, because the ventilating system was defectively designed by Mobilco.

(B) Heatco only, because it was the excessive heat from the furnace that caused Child's injuries.

(C) Mobilco and Heatco only, because the combination of Mobilco's design and Heatco's furnace caused Child's injuries.

(D) Mobilco, Heatco, and Coolco, because the combination of Mobilco's design, Heatco's furnace, and Coolco's air conditioning unit caused Child's injuries. 

\section{Question 22}

Hank owned a secondhand goods store. He often placed merchandise on the sidewalk, sometimes for short intervals, sometimes from 7 a.m. until 6 p.m. Pedestrians from time to time stopped and gathered to look at the merchandise. Fred had moved into an apartment that was situated immediately above Hank's store; a street-level stairway entrance was located about 20 feet to the east. On several occasions, Fred had complained to Hank about the situation because not only were his view and peace of mind affected, but also his travel on the sidewalk was made more difficult. Fred owned and managed a restaurant two blocks to the west of his apartment and made frequent trips back and forth. There was a back entrance to his apartment through a parking lot; this entrance was about 200 feet farther in walking distance from his restaurant. Once Fred complained to the police, whereupon Hank was arrested under a local ordinance which prohibited the placing of goods or merchandise on public sidewalks and imposed, as its sole sanction, a fine for its violation.

One day, the sidewalk in front of Hank's store was unusually cluttered because he was cleaning and mopping the floor of his shop. Fred and his 15-year-old son, Steve, saw a bus they wished to take, and they raced down the stairs and onto the cluttered sidewalk in front of Hank's store, Fred in the lead. While dodging merchandise and people, Fred fell. Steve tripped over him and suffered a broken arm. Fred also suffered broken bones and was unable to attend to his duties for six weeks.

If, prior to the day of his personal injuries, Fred had asserted a claim based on public nuisance for injunctive relief against Hank for his obstruction of the sidewalk in violation of the ordinance, the defense on which Hank would have most likely prevailed is that:

(A) Fred consented to the obstruction by continuing to rent his apartment.

(B) The violation of the ordinance was not unreasonable. (C) Remedy of abatement by self-help was adequate.

(D) There was no claim for special damage.

\section{Question 23}

The city of Metropolis has an ordinance that makes it an offense, punishable by fine, for the owner of a dog to permit the dog to run unleashed on a public way.

Smythe, a police officer, observed a small dog running loose in the street. As Smythe picked the dog up, Nelson, who was seated in her car lawfully parked at the curb, called out, "Oh, thank you, Officer, for returning Fido." Smythe asked Nelson whether the dog was hers, and when she acknowledged ownership, he asked to see her driver's license. Nelson gave her name and address, but she refused to produce a driver's license. Smythe then told her to produce her driver's license if she did not want to go to jail. Nelson responded by saying, "Isn't this ridiculous?" Smythe took her by the arm and said, "Let's go. You are under arrest."'

Nelson cried out that Smythe was hurting her but he refused to release her arm, and she struck him with her free hand. Smythe then dragged Nelson from her car, forced her into his squad car, and took her to the police station.

The incident took place on the street in front of the apartment where Nelson and her aged father, Joplin, lived. Smythe did not know that Joplin had observed what took place from a window in the apartment.

If Nelson's father, Joplin, asserts a claim against Smythe for the intentional infliction of emotional distress, will Joplin prevail?

(A) Yes, if Smythe's acts caused Joplin severe emotional distress.

(B) Yes, if it is found that Smythe's behavior was extreme and outrageous with respect to Nelson. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

(C) No, because Smythe did not know that Joplin was watching.

(D) No, because Joplin was not within the zone of physical danger.



\section{Questions 24-25} are based on the following fact situation:

Gasco owns a storage facility where flammable gases are stored in liquefied form under high pressure in large spherical tanks. The facility was constructed for Gasco by Acme Company, a firm that specializes in the construction of such facilities. After the facility had been in use for five years, an explosion in the facility started a large fire that blanketed the surrounding countryside with a high concentration of oily smoke and soot.

Farber owns a large truck farm near the facility. His entire lettuce crop was destroyed by oily deposits left by the smoke.


\section{24} If Farber asserts a claim against Gasco for the loss of his lettuce crop and is unable to show any negligence on the part of Gasco, will Farber prevail?

(A) Yes, because the operation of the storage facility was an abnormally dangerous activity.

(B) Yes, because the intrusion of the smoke onto Farber's farm amounted to a trespass.

(C) No, if the explosion was caused by internal corrosion that reasonable inspection procedures would not have disclosed.

(D) No, if the explosion was caused by negligent construction on Acme's part.


\section{25} If Farber asserts a claim against Acme Company for the loss of his lettuce crop, will Farber prevail?

(A) No, if Acme did not design the storage facility. (B) No, because Acme was an independent contractor.

(C) Yes, because the operation of the storage facility was an abnormally dangerous activity.

(D) Yes, if the explosion resulted from a defect of which Acme was aware.

\section{Question 26}

Siddon worked as a private duty nurse and on occasion worked in Doctors' Hospital. The hospital called Registry, the private duty referral agency through which Siddon usually obtained employment, and asked that in the future she not be assigned to patients in Doctors' Hospital.

Registry asked the hospital why it had made the request. Doctors' Hospital sent a letter to Registry giving as the reason for its request that significant amounts of narcotics had disappeared during Siddon's shifts from the nursing stations at which she had worked.

If Siddon asserts a claim based on defamation against Doctors' Hospital, Siddon will:

(A) Recover, because the hospital accused Siddon of improper professional conduct.

(B) Recover if Siddon did not take the narcotics.

(C) Not recover if narcotics disappeared during Siddon's shifts.

(D) Not recover if the hospital reasonably believed that Siddon took the narcotics.

\section{Question 27}

When Mary Weld visited Dugan's Alleys to participate in the weekly bowling league competition held there she brought her two-year-old son, Bobby, along and left him in a nursery provided by Dugan for the convenience of his customers. The children in the nursery were normally supervised by three attendants, but at this particular time, as Mary Weld knew, there was only one attendant present to care for about 20 children of assorted ages. About 30 minutes later, while the attendant was looking the other way, Bobby suddenly started to cry. The attendant found him lying on his back, picked him up, and called his mother. It was later discovered that Bobby had suffered a skull fracture.

If a claim is asserted against Dugan on Bobby's behalf, will Bobby prevail?

(A) Yes, because Dugan owed the child the highest degree of care.

(B) Yes, because a two-year-old is incapable of contributory negligence.

(C) No, unless Dugan or his employees failed to exercise reasonable care to assure

Bobby's safety.

(D) No, if Mary Weld assumed the risk by leaving Bobby in the nursery.

\section{Question 28}

Dever drove his car into an intersection and collided with a fire engine that had entered the intersection from Dever's right. The accident was caused by negligence on Dever's part. As a result of the accident, the fire engine was delayed in reaching Peters's house, which was entirely consumed by fire. Peters's house was located about 10 blocks from the scene of the accident.

If Peters asserts a claim against Dever, Peters will recover:

(A) That part of his loss that would have been prevented if the collision had not occurred.

(B) The value of his house before the fire.

(C) Nothing if Dever had nothing to do with causing the fire.

(D) Nothing, because Dever's conduct did not create an apparent danger to Peters.

\section{Question 29}

Purvis purchased a used car from Daley, a used-car dealer. Knowing them to be false, Daley made the following statements to Purvis prior to the sale:

Statement 1. This car has never been involved in an accident.

Statement 2. This car gets 25 miles to the gallon on the open highway.

Statement 3. This is as smooth-riding a car as you can get.

If Purvis asserts a claim against Daley based on deceit, which of the false statements made by Daley would support Purvis's claim?
(A) Statement 1. only.
(B) Statement 2. only.
(C) Statements 1. and 2. only.
(D) Statements 2. and 3. only.

\section{Question 30}

Customer, age 20 , went into Store at approximately 6:45 p.m. to look at some suits that were on sale. The clerks were busy, and one of them told him that he should wait on himself. Customer selected three suits from a rack and went into the dressing room to try them on. Signs posted on the walls of the Store state that closing time is 9 p.m.; however, because of a special awards banquet for employees, Store was closed at 7 p.m. on this day. The employees, in a hurry to get to the banquet, did not check the dressing rooms or turn off the lights before leaving. When Customer emerged from the dressing room a few minutes after 7 p.m., he was alone and locked in. Customer tried the front door but it was secured on the outside by a bar and padlock, so he went to the rear door. Customer grabbed the doorknob and vigorously shook the door. It did not open, but the activity set off a mechanism that had been installed because of several recent thefts committed by persons who 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

had hidden in the store until after closing time. The mechanism sprayed a chemical mist in Customer's face, causing him to become temporarily blind. The mechanism also activated an alarm carried by Store's employee, Watchman, who was just coming to work. Watchman unlocked the front door, ran into the store, and grabbed Customer. Customer, who was still unable to see, struck out at this person and hit a metal rack, injuring his hand. Watchman then identified himself, and Customer did the same. After assuring himself that Customer was telling the truth, Watchman allowed him to leave.

If Customer is to prevail on a claim against Store based on battery from the use of the chemical spray, Customer must establish that:

(A) He suffered severe bodily harm.

(B) The spray mist was an offensive or harmful contact.

(C) He suffered severe emotional distress.

(D) His conduct was not a factual cause of the chemical's spraying him.

\section{Question 31}

Dock had been the unsuccessful suitor of Mary, who had recently announced her engagement to Paul. Angered by her engagement, Dock sent Mary the following letter: "I hope you know what you are doing. The man you think you love wears women's clothes when at home. A Friend."

The receipt of this letter caused Mary great emotional distress. She hysterically telephoned Paul, read him the letter, and told him that she was breaking their engagement. The contents of the letter were not revealed to others. Paul, who was a young attorney in the state attorney's office, suffered serious humiliation and emotional distress as a result of the broken engagement.

If Paul asserts a claim against Dock based on defamation and it is proved that Dock's statement was true, such proof will be:
(A) A defense by itself.
(B) A defense only if Dock was not actuated by malice.
(C) A defense only if Dock reasonably believed it to be true.
(D) No defense by itself.

\section{Question 32}

Auto Company, a corporation, was a small dealer in big new cars and operated a service department. Peter wanted to ask Mike, the service manager, whether Auto Company would check the muffler on his small foreign car. Peter parked on the street near the service department with the intention of entering that part of the building by walking through one of the three large entrances designed for use by automobiles. There was no street entrance to the service department for individuals, and customers as well as company employees often used one of the automobile entrances.

As Peter reached the building, he glanced behind him to be sure no vehicle was approaching that entrance. Seeing none, he walked through the entrance, but immediately he was struck on the back of the head and neck by the large overhead door which was descending. The blow knocked Peter unconscious and caused permanent damage.

Peter did not know how the door was raised and lowered; however, the overhead door was operated by the use of either of two switches in the building. One switch was located in the office of the service manager and the other was located near the door in the service work area for the convenience of the mechanics. On this occasion, no one was in the service work area except three Auto Company mechanics. Mike, who had been in his office, and the three mechanics denied having touched a switch that would have lowered the door. Subsequent investigation showed, however, that the switches were working properly and that all of the mechanisms for moving the door were in good working order. If Peter asserts a claim based on negligence against Auto Company, Peter probably will:

(A) Recover, because Auto Company is strictly liable under the circumstances.

(B) Recover, because an employee of Auto Company was negligent.

(C) Not recover, because Peter was a licensee.

(D) Not recover, because Peter assumed the risk.



\section{Questions 33-34} are based on the following fact situation:

Si was in the act of siphoning gasoline from Neighbor's car, in Neighbor's garage and without his consent, when the gasoline exploded and a fire followed. Rescuer, seeing the fire, grabbed a fire extinguisher from his car and put out the fire, saving Si's life and Neighbor's car and garage. In doing so, Rescuer was badly burned.


\section{33} If Rescuer asserts a claim against $\mathrm{Si}$ for personal injuries, Rescuer will:

(A) Prevail, because he saved Si's life.

(B) Prevail, because Si was at fault in causing the fire.

(C) Not prevail, because Rescuer knowingly assumed the risk.



\section{ Not prevail, because Rescuer's action was not a foreseeable consequence of Si's conduct} If Rescuer asserts a claim against Neighbor for personal injuries, Rescuer will:
(A) Prevail, because he saved Neighbor's property.
(B) Prevail, because he acted reasonably in an emergency.
(C) Not prevail, because Neighbor was not at fault.
(D) Not prevail, because Rescuer know- ingly assumed the risk. 

\section{TORTS ANSWERS}

\section{Answer to Question 1}

(A) Because Steel had no notice that the product would cause eye injuries, an action against Steel must be predicated on strict liability, not negligence. The strict duty in such cases extends to any supplier in the distributive chain. Thus, if Steel, the manufacturer of the glue, is liable, then Paint Company, the retailer, may also be subject to liability. Conversely, if there is a determination that Steel did not manufacture an unreasonably dangerous product, then there will be no basis for holding the retailer liable. (B) is incorrect. It addresses Innes's status as a foreseeable victim of the fumes. However, it fails to address the basic issue of liability. Innes could be a foreseeable victim, yet she still must establish the unreasonably dangerous character of the product. (C) is incorrect because negligence is irrelevant to a strict liability action, which Innes can pursue against Paint Company as a commercial supplier. (D) is incorrect because the dangerous character of the glue emanates from its properties during use, not its packaging. The fact that Paint Company had no opportunity to inspect the product is irrelevant to its liability.

\section{Answer to Question 2}

(D) Innes probably cannot recover against Glass. An action against Glass would have to be based on the actions of its employees. Because it was not functioning as a commercial supplier in this case, it cannot be held liable on a strict liability theory. A successful action against it must be based on negligence. The employees had no notice of the dangerous character of the glue, nor were they even aware of the common ductwork. Therefore, a cause of action for negligence will not lie against the employees, and obviously will not lie against Glass. (A) is an incorrect statement of the law. (B) is incorrect. The employees did cause the fumes to enter Innes's area of the building. However, as has been shown, they were unaware of the damage the fumes could cause, or that they were sending fumes into the other area. (C) is incorrect because use of a product for its intended purpose does not negate the possibility of liability. If Glass's employees acted negligently while using the product for its intended purpose, Glass could be held vicariously liable for their actions.

\section{Answer to Question 3}

(C) Prout will not recover if Denton's conduct did not threaten immediate physical harm. A prima facie case for tortious assault requires that the defendant create a reasonable apprehension in the plaintiff of immediate harmful or offensive contact to the plaintiff's person. Threats of future harm do not give rise to an action for assault. (A) is incorrect because mere intent to place in fear of physical harm is not enough. There must be a creation of reasonable apprehension of immediate harm. (B) is incorrect; extreme and outrageous conduct is an element of intentional infliction of emotional distress, but not of assault. (D) is incorrect because it is irrelevant, and later actions would not vitiate any threat of immediate harm.

\section{Answer to Question 4}

(A) Prout will recover if he suffered severe emotional distress. The tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress requires: (i) an act by defendant amounting to extreme and outrageous conduct; (ii) intent to cause severe emotional distress or recklessness as to the effect of the conduct; (iii) causation; and (iv) damages. If Prout suffered severe emotional distress resulting from Denton's conduct (which was extreme and outrageous and, at the very least, reckless), he can recover from Denton. (B) is incorrect because intent, without more, does not establish intentional infliction of emotional distress. (C) is incorrect because immediate threat of physical harm is an element of assault rather than intentional infliction of emotional distress. (D) is 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

incorrect because, even though actual damages are required to win a case grounded on intentional infliction of emotional distress, physical injuries are not required.

\section{Answer to Question 5}

(C) Parker will not prevail because at common law Parker's contributory negligence will completely bar his right to recover. Parker was contributorily negligent because he was operating a car with defective brakes in violation of the statute. (A) is wrong because Parker was not in the class intended to be protected by the statute. It was Parker's obligation to ensure that the brakes complied with the statute. (B) is incorrect because the existence of an emergency, presenting little time for reflection, may be considered as among the circumstances under which the defendant acted (i.e., he must act as the reasonable person would act in the same emergency). Applying this criterion, Doctor was justified in moving the car. (D) is incorrect because a person who is injured while intoxicated does not automatically lose a cause of action against the person causing the injury. In addition, the harm in this case was not the type of harm which the drunk driving statute was designed to prevent.

\section{Answer to Question 6}

(A) (A) is correct because leaving the trench uncovered was the proximate cause of Tommy's death. Generally, rescuers are viewed as foreseeable intervening forces, and the original tortfeasor will be liable for their negligence. (B) is wrong as a matter of law. Construction companies are subject to strict liability based on the same criteria applied to other companies and individuals. The activity must be deemed "ultrahazardous" or "abnormally dangerous" to subject the party performing the activity to strict liability. Leaving the trench uncovered was negligent, but it is not ultrahazardous or abnormally dangerous. (C) is wrong because under the attractive nuisance doctrine, the defendant had a duty to exercise ordinary care to avoid reasonably foreseeable harm to children caused by artificial conditions on the property. The fact that children played on the vacant lot made it possible for the defendant to anticipate infant trespassers. The defendant also knew of the dangerous condition, and the expense of covering the trench would be slight in comparison with the magnitude of the risk. (D) is incorrect, because even if the collapse of the trench was unforeseeable, Construction Company's conduct still threatened to cause injury, and most courts find liability where there is a foreseeable result of an unforeseeable cause.

\section{Answer to Question 7}

(D) The most significant factor pertains to the burden on Macco to eliminate the danger. Under the attractive nuisance doctrine, most courts impose on a landowner the duty to exercise ordinary care to avoid reasonably foreseeable risks of harm to children caused by artificial conditions on the property. To assess this special duty on the landowner, the plaintiff must show, among other things, that the expense of remedying the situation is slight compared with the magnitude of the risk. Choice (D) most closely reflects that requirement. (A) is incorrect because most jurisdictions no longer require that the child plaintiff be lured onto the property by the dangerous condition. Thus, whether the press was visible from a public way would only be relevant to show that the trespass was foreseeable, and here the facts indicate that the landowner was already aware that children played on the machinery. (B) and (C) are incorrect because the doctrine of attractive nuisance is distinct from nuisance law. The landowner may be liable even if the danger is neither a public nor a private nuisance as to adjoining landowners.

\section{Answer to Question 8}

(A) Accountant will recover because the dishwasher was defective. A prima facie products liability action based on strict liability in tort requires: (i) strict duty owed by a commercial supplier; (ii) breach of that duty; (iii) actual and proximate cause; and (iv) damages. Accountant can make such a case because he need not prove that the defendant was at fault in selling or producing a defective product-only that the product in fact is so defective as to be "unreasonably dangerous." The product also must have reached the user without substantial change in the condition in which it is supplied. The fact that the dishwasher had an internal wiring defect causing the machine to malfunction is a sufficient basis to impose strict liability. Any negligence by Contractor as an intermediary does not void the manufacturer's liability. Suppliers must anticipate reasonably foreseeable uses even if they are misuses. (B) is wrong because Contractor was an independent contractor with no relationship to Elex Company that vicarious liability would support. (C) is wrong even though assumption of risk may sometimes be successfully raised in strict liability cases. Here, Accountant did not know of the risk and did not voluntarily assume it. (D) is incorrect because privity is not required to bring a strict liability action. A majority of courts extend protection not only to buyers, but also to members of the buyer's family, guests, friends, and employees of the buyer, as well as foreseeable bystanders.

\section{Answer to Question 9}

(D) Absent a valid defense, a defendant may not cause a substantial, unreasonable interference with a neighbor's use or enjoyment of his property. Whether the Householders were there before or after Diner opened does not control the result; plaintiffs' right to the reasonable use or enjoyment of their land is the test. (A) is wrong because the fact that one type of land use was entered into before another is relevant but not conclusive evidence as to reasonableness of use. (B) is wrong because a use permitted under a zoning ordinance may be shown to be unreasonable. (C) is a misstatement of law.

\section{Answer to Question 10}

(C) Driver's injuries were actually caused by Trucker since they would not have occurred "but for" Trucker's negligent parking. Trucker was also the legal (proximate) cause of Driver's injuries. It was foreseeable that an eastbound car might proceed into the intersection when the traffic signal was obstructed and possibly collide with another car possessing the right of way-a foreseeable result caused by a foreseeable intervening force. Therefore, (A), (B), and (D) are incorrect.

\section{Answer to Question 11}

(B) Nothing in the facts indicates that City was under an absolute duty to maintain its traffic poles. Hence, (A) and (C) are incorrect. (D) states no legal theory for Driver's claim and so is not as good an answer as (B). The best theory for Driver is that City was negligent in not replacing the broken pole within 72 hours.

\section{Answer to Question 12}

(C) Henry intended to cause Wanda the severe emotional distress that did, in fact, result from his outrageous conduct. Hence, his conduct satisfies the prima facie case and (C) is the correct response. John's conduct was a foreseeable response to Henry's act and hence did not break the chain of causation leading to the result intended by Henry. Thus, (B) is wrong. (A) is unsupported by the facts, and (D) is a misstatement of law; if the third person's conduct was unforeseeable, it may affect the defendant's liability.

\section{Answer to Question 13}

(D) Although Peter intended to go onto Owner's property, his entry was privileged if Peter believed it was necessary to protect himself and/or his boat. Note that this privilege is qualified in that Peter 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

must pay for any damage he caused to Owner's property. (A), (B), and (C) are incorrect because knowledge that the land is privately owned is irrelevant to the privilege of necessity.

\section{Answer to Question 14}

(A) The privilege to invade land as a private necessity supersedes the occupant's right to protect the property from invasion; hence, the landowner is liable to the invader for any harm suffered if entry is denied. (C) is wrong because Owner could have recovered for injury to his dock, but had no right to resist Peter's entry. (B) and (D) are incorrect because Peter's entry was privileged.

\section{Answer to Question 15}

(B) Parents may be liable for negligence for failing to prevent the tortious conduct of their children. Further, if parents know of their child's propensity to harm, they have a duty to exercise due care to control the child's behavior. Here, they did just the opposite. Hence, (D) is wrong. (C) is wrong because children are considered capable of committing torts. (A) is wrong because parents' liability is based on negligence.

\section{Answer to Question 16}

(A) A child is liable for his intentional torts whether or not he knows of their "wrongfulness." Hence, (B) is incorrect. (C) is wrong because there is no minimum age for capacity to commit torts.

Children generally are deemed to have the capacity to form the intent to commit intentional torts. (D) is wrong because parents are not vicariously liable for their children's torts.

\section{Answer to Question 17}

(B) Brenda must establish the facts in (B) because to hold the commercial supplier strictly liable for a product defect, the product must be expected to, and must in fact, reach the user or consumer without substantial change in the condition in which it is supplied. (A) is wrong because warnings are only one consideration in determining whether a product is in a "defective condition unreasonably dangerous" as required for strict liability purposes. Strict liability can apply even if the customer is informed of the warnings. (C) is wrong because it goes to an issue of negligence on the retailer's part. It is unnecessary for a retailer to affirmatively contribute to the defectiveness of the product for strict liability to apply. (See the analysis of option (B), above.) (D) is incorrect because in a strict liability case it is unnecessary to prove that the defendant was at fault in selling or producing a dangerous product-only that the product is in fact so defective as to be unreasonably dangerous. Thus, plaintiff need not show that Local Retailer was aware or should have been aware of the danger. Options (A), (C), and (D) all deal with fault on Local Retailer's part, and are, therefore, wrong in a strict liability analysis.

\section{Answer to Question 18}

(D) Brenda must show that the stove had an unreasonably dangerous defect to establish a breach of duty by the manufacturer. To establish a prima facie case based on strict liability in tort, the plaintiff must prove: (i) strict duty owed by a commercial supplier; (ii) breach of that duty; (iii) actual and proximate cause; and (iv) damages. To establish breach of duty for a strict liability action, the plaintiff need not prove that the defendant was at fault in selling or producing a dangerous product $-$ only that the product in fact is so defective as to be "unreasonably dangerous." (A) is wrong because negligence need not be proven in a strict liability case. (B) is wrong because the availability of safer product alternatives is only one factor to be considered by the courts in determining whether a product is defective. $(\mathrm{C})$ is incorrect because even though the warnings may well have been inadequate because they were placed on the crate rather than on the stove itself, the role of instructions and warnings is but one of many factors the courts will consider in determining the defective nature of a given product.

\section{Answer to Question 19}

(C) At issue is Dow's duty to Paulsen. Generally, the law imposes no duty to affirmatively act for the benefit of others. There are exceptions to this rule-e.g., one who places another in a position of peril must use reasonable care to aid that person; one who gratuitously acts for the benefit of another thereby assumes a duty to act like an ordinary reasonable person. None of the exceptions is applicable to the case at bar. Therefore, (B) and (D) are clearly incorrect. The "Good Samaritan" statute, described in (A), generally exempts from liability medical personnel who voluntarily and gratuitously render emergency treatment. However, it does not require them to provide such treatment. Thus, (A) is incorrect.

\section{Answer to Question 20}

(D) Under a negligence analysis, the defendant's conduct must fall below the standard of care expected of a reasonable person under like circumstances. In the instant case, Seller had a duty, at the time of transfer of possession of the home to Parents, to disclose concealed, unreasonably dangerous conditions, of which he knew or had reason to know, and of which he knew Parents were ignorant and not likely to discover on reasonable inspection. Thus, if Seller did not know of a defect in the ventilating system, and could not have discovered the defect through reasonable care, a cause of action for negligence would not lie. (B) and (C) imply that Seller would be liable in negligence merely for failure to inspect or for failure to discover the defect upon inspection. However, there must also be a showing that a reasonable inspection would have disclosed the defect. Consequently, (B) and (C) are incorrect. (A) is more appropriate to a strict liability case, since it does not even mention the necessity for knowledge or discovery of the defect. Therefore, it is an incorrect alternative.

\section{Answer to Question 21}

(A) The issue is causation. But for Mobilco's defective design of the ventilating system, the injury to Child would not have occurred. Since Child can trace the injury to a defect in the ventilating system that existed when it left Mobilco's control, cause in fact is established. The same concepts of proximate cause which govern negligence actions are applicable to strict liability actions for defective products. Child's injury is the direct result of Mobilco's defective design, which is the cause in fact of the injury. Thus, proximate cause is established. Heatco's furnace and Coolco's air conditioning unit contained no defects and did not cause injury to Child. As the facts make clear, both units were controlled by a thermostat independent of the units themselves. Thus, (B), (C), and (D) are incorrect.

\section{Answer to Question 22}

(D) Hank would prevail in the absence of a claim for special damage. Public nuisance is an act that unreasonably interferes with the health, safety, or property rights of the community. Recovery is available for public nuisance only if a private party has suffered some unique damage not suffered by the public at large. Thus, without a claim of special damage by Fred, Hank would be able to defend against Fred's public nuisance suit. (A) is wrong because it is a form of the largely 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

discredited "coming to the nuisance" defense. Fred is entitled to the reasonable use and enjoyment of his leasehold. Remaining in the apartment does not constitute "consent." (B) is incorrect because the ordinance is enforceable against Hank even if his violation is "reasonable." This option is a "distractor," designed to lure you into wrongfully applying the "unreasonable interference" test from private nuisance cases. (C) is incorrect because only one who has suffered some unique damage has a privilege to abate a public nuisance by self-help. In the absence of such unique damage, a public nuisance may be abated or enjoined only by public authority.

\section{Answer to Question 23}

(C) Where the defendant intentionally causes severe physical harm to one person, and another person suffers severe emotional distress because of that person's relationship to the injured party, problems of intent and causation arise. To sustain a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress under such circumstances, the plaintiff generally must show: (i) he was present when the injury occurred to the other person; (ii) he is a close relation of the injured person; and (iii) the defendant knew that the plaintiff was present and a close relation to the injured person. In the case at bar, we do not know that Nelson suffered severe physical harm. However, we do know that Smythe was unaware that Joplin observed the incident. (A) and (B) are incorrect, because they ignore the issue of whether Smythe knew that Joplin was watching. (D) is incorrect, because the term "zone of physical danger" is more appropriate to an action for negligent infliction of emotional distress.

\section{Answer to Question 24}

(A) An activity may be characterized as ultrahazardous if it (i) involves a substantial risk of serious harm to person or property; (ii) cannot be performed without risk of serious harm no matter how much care is taken; and (iii) is not a commonly engaged-in activity in the particular community. In such cases, the duty owed is an absolute duty to make safe the ultrahazardous condition. Liability will be imposed for any injuries to persons or property resulting from the condition. Pursuant to the foregoing criteria, Gasco's operation of the storage facility constitutes an abnormally dangerous activity, subjecting Gasco to liability for damage caused by the explosion, regardless of any negligence on the part of Gasco. Thus, (C) is incorrect. (D) is incorrect because any negligence on the part of Acme will not absolve Gasco of liability for maintenance of an ultrahazardous condition. (B) is incorrect because where, as here, no physical object enters the plaintiff's land, a court will generally treat the matter as a nuisance case or one involving strict liability if ultrahazardous activity is involved, rather than as a trespass case.

\section{Answer to Question 25}

(D) Acme, as the manufacturer of the facility, owed a duty of due care to any foreseeable plaintiff. Farber, whose farm is located near the facility, is a foreseeable plaintiff. Therefore, if the explosion resulted from a defect of which Acme was aware, Acme would be liable to Farber for the resultant loss of his lettuce crop. (B) is incorrect because Acme's status as an independent contractor relative to Gasco has no bearing on the duty owed by Acme to Farber. (A) is incorrect because Acme will be liable for manufacturing the facility with knowledge of a defect, regardless of the identity of the facility's designer. (C) is incorrect because Acme was the manufacturer, rather than the operator, of the facility.

\section{Answer to Question 26}

(D) In a defamation action, a defendant may assert a claim of qualified privilege for statements made in the interest of the publisher of the statement, the recipient of the statement, or both. The privilege will be lost only if the statement is not within the scope of the privilege or if it was made with malice (i.e., knowledge of falsity or reckless disregard of truth or falsity). In this case, Hospital's response to Registry on a matter of common interest was within the scope of the privilege. Thus, (D) is correct because Hospital's reasonable belief would negate any malice on its part. (A) is incorrect, because the accusation alone does not establish defamation when a claim of qualified privilege is raised. (B) is incorrect, because the falsity of the statement does not dispose of the question of qualified privilege. $(\mathrm{C})$ is incorrect, because the disappearance of the narcotics does not, by itself, establish a reasonable belief on the part of the hospital that Siddon was responsible for the disappearance.

\section{Answer to Question 27}

(C) (A) is incorrect because Dugan owed the child the duty to act as an ordinary, prudent, reasonable person-not the "highest degree of care." (B) is incorrect because, even if a two-year-old were incapable of contributory negligence, the plaintiff could prevail only if the defendant or his employees were negligent-i.e., failed to exercise reasonable care to ensure the plaintiff's safety. Because (C) reflects this principle, it is the correct answer. (D) is incorrect because, even if Mary assumed the risk, the mother's assumption of risk will not be imputed to the plaintiff-child.

\section{Answer to Question 28}

(A) In negligently causing the collision with the fire engine, it was foreseeable that Dever's actions could cause injury to someone else (e.g., a local resident who the fire engine would be unable to reach because of the accident). Peters, whose house was located only 10 blocks from the scene of the accident, falls within the foreseeable zone of danger. It follows that (D) is incorrect. (C) is incorrect because, even if Dever was not involved in causing the fire, his negligence caused the delay in the arrival of the fire engine. In turn, this delay may well have caused all or part of the damage suffered by Peters. (B) is incorrect because it assumes, without a factual basis, that Dever's negligence caused the entire loss. (A) is correct because it recognizes that Dever breached a duty of due care owed to Peters, and that Dever will be liable for that part of Peters's damages that was actually and proximately caused by Dever's breach of duty.

\section{Answer to Question 29}

(C) A cause of action for deceit requires: (i) a false representation of a material past or present fact; (ii) scienter; (iii) intent to induce reliance; (iv) causation; (v) justifiable reliance; and (vi) damages. Generally, reliance upon false statements of opinion, value, or quality is unjustified. Here, Daley's statements regarding the car's not having been involved in an accident and the gasoline mileage constitute knowingly false representations of material fact that will form the basis of a cause of action for deceit. Thus, statements 1. and 2. are correct. Statement 3., regarding the smooth ride of the car, is an opinion, upon which Purvis would not be justified in relying. Consequently, statement 3 . would not support Purvis's claim for deceit. Therefore, (C) is correct, and (A), (B), and (D) are wrong.

\section{Answer to Question 30}

(B) In order to establish a prima facie case for battery, Customer must show (i) an act by the defendant Store that brings about harmful or offensive contact to Customer's person, (ii) intent by Store to bring about such contact, and (iii) causation. (B) is correct since this is one of the elements necessary to establish a battery. (A) is wrong because there need not be severe bodily harm for a battery to occur. The contact may be merely offensive without causing any bodily injury. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

(C) is wrong because there need not be any emotional distress for a battery to occur. (D) is wrong because Customer's conduct of vigorously shaking the door was indeed the factual cause of the spray. However, there was causation on the Store's part in the sense of the Store having set in motion a force that would bring about a harmful or offensive contact to Customer's person where there was any attempt to open the door.

\section{Answer to Question 31}

(A) Truth is an absolute defense to a claim of defamation. (B) is wrong because it is irrelevant whether Dock made the statement out of malice as long as the statement was in fact true. (C) is wrong because it is equally irrelevant whether Dock reasonably believed the statement to be true. The fact that the statement is true is the only requirement for the defense to prevail. (D) is wrong for the reason that (A) is correct. Note that Paul's claim is based on defamation. Even though Dock can defend the defamation action by showing that the statement is true, Paul might nonetheless be able to successfully assert a cause of action based on intentional infliction of emotional distress.

\section{Answer to Question 32}

(B) (B) is correct because res ipsa loquitur applies. When the facts are such as to strongly indicate that the plaintiff's injuries resulted from the defendant's negligence, the trier of fact may be permitted to infer the defendant's liability. The circumstantial evidence doctrine of res ipsa loquitur requires the plaintiff to show: (i) the accident causing his injury is of the type that would not normally occur unless someone was negligent; (ii) the negligence was attributable to the defendant; and (iii) the plaintiff was free from negligence. All of these elements are satisfied from the facts of this case. Because the switches and the doors were found to be in good working order, the injury can reasonably be inferred to be attributable to one of Auto Company's employees, because they had access to the switches. (A) is wrong because strict liability applies to ultrahazardous or abnormally dangerous activities that cannot be performed without risk of serious harm no matter how much care is taken. The operation of the door cannot be characterized as ultrahazardous or abnormally dangerous. (C) is incorrect because the owner has a duty to exercise reasonable care in the conduct of "active operations" (such as opening and closing the door) for the protection of licensees known to be on the property. (D) is incorrect because to have assumed the risk, the plaintiff must have known of the risk and voluntarily assumed it. Peter had no reason to know of any risk involving the overhead door and consequently could not assume it.

\section{Answer to Question 33}

(B) It is foreseeable that where a defendant's wrongful conduct places him in a position of peril, a rescuer may suffer injuries while reasonably attempting to aid him, i.e., "danger invites rescue." Hence, $(B)$ is correct and $(D)$ is incorrect. (C) is wrong because a rescue is not a "voluntary" assumption of the risk. (A) is not a reason for imposing liability.

\section{Answer to Question 34}

(C) Since Neighbor's conduct did not endanger Si, Neighbor owed no duty to Si or his rescuer. Generally, there is no duty owed to an undiscovered trespasser such as $\mathrm{Si}$, whose conduct was unforeseeable. (A) and (B) are wrong because the facts that Rescuer acted reasonably or saved Neighbor's property are irrelevant to the issue of Neighbor's duty. (D) is wrong because an act of rescue is not an assumption of the risk. 

\section{MDR 2007}