The contract has no provision regarding assignment.


\section{1} If Addie assigns the contract to Coot, who has comparable experience and reputation, which of the following statements is correct?
(A) Addie is in breach of contract.
(B) Boone may refuse to accept perfor- mance by Coot.
(C) Boone is required to accept perfor- mance by Coot.
(D) There is a novation.


\section{2} If Addie assigns the contract to Coot and thereafter Coot does not meet the contract specifications in painting Boone's barn, Boone:
(A) Has a cause of action against Addie for damages.
(B) Has a cause of action only against Coot for damages.
(C) Has a cause of action against Addie for damages, only after he has first exhausted his remedies against Coot.
(D) Does not have a cause of action against Addie for damages because he waived his rights against Addie by permitting Coot to perform the work.



\section{Questions 3-5} are based on the following fact situation:

Johnston purchased 100 bolts of standard blue wool, No. 1 quality, from McHugh. The sales contract provided that Johnston would make payment prior to inspection. The 100 bolts were shipped and Johnston paid McHugh. Upon inspection, however, Johnston discovered that the wool was No. 2 quality. Johnston thereupon tendered back the wool to McHugh and demanded return of his payment. McHugh refused on the ground that there is no difference between No. 1 quality wool and No. 2 quality wool.


\section{3} Which of the following statements regarding the contract provision for preinspection payment is correct?
(A) It constitutes an acceptance of the goods.
(B) It constitutes a waiver of the buyer's remedy of private sale in the case of nonconforming goods.
(C) It does not impair a buyer's right of inspection or his remedies.
(D) It is invalid.


\section{4} What is Johnston's remedy because the wool was nonconforming?

(A) Specific performance.

(B) Damages measured by the difference between the value of the goods delivered and the value of conforming goods.

(C) Damages measured by the price paid plus the difference between the contract price and the cost of buying substitute goods.

(D) None, since he waived his remedies by agreeing to pay before inspection.


\section{5} Can Johnston resell the wool?
(A) Yes, in a private sale.
(B) Yes, in a private sale but only after giving McHugh reasonable notice of his intention to resell. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

(C) Yes, but only at a public sale.

(D) No.



\section{Questions 6-8} are based on the following fact situation:

Duffer and Slicker, who lived in different suburbs 20 miles apart, were golfing acquaintances at the Interurban Country Club. Both were traveling salesmen-Duffer for a pharmaceutical house and Slicker for a widget manufacturer. Duffer wrote Slicker by United States mail on Friday, October 8:

I need a motorcycle for transportation to the country club, and will buy your Sujocki for \$ 1,200$ upon your bringing it to my home address above [stated in the letterhead] on or before noon, November 12 next. This offer is not subject to countermand.

Sincerely,

[signed] Duffer

Slicker replied by mail the following day:

I accept your offer and promise to deliver the bike as you specified.

Sincerely,

[signed] Slicker

This letter, although properly addressed, was misdirected by the postal service and not received by Duffer until November 10 . Duffer had bought another Sujocki bike from Koolcat for \$ 1,050$ a few hours before.

Koolcat saw Slicker at the Interurban Country Club on November 11 and said: "I sold my Sujocki to Duffer yesterday for \$ 1,050$. Would you consider selling me yours for \$ 950$ ?" Slicker replied, "I'll let you know in a few days."

On November 12, Slicker took his Sujocki to Duffer's residence; he arrived at 11:55 a.m. Duffer was asleep and did not answer Slicker's doorbell rings until $12: 15 \mathrm{p}$.m. Duffer then rejected Slicker's bike on the ground that he had already bought Koolcat's.


\section{6} In Duffer's letter of October 8, what was the legal effect of the language: "This offer is not subject to countermand"?

(A) Under the Uniform Commercial Code, the offer was irrevocable until noon, November 12.

(B) Such language prevented an effective acceptance by Slicker prior to noon, November 12.

(C) At common law, such language created a binding option in Slicker's favor.

(D) Such language did not affect the offeror's power of revocation of the offer.


\section{7} In a lawsuit by Slicker against Duffer for breach of contract, what would the court probably decide regarding Slicker's letter of October 9?

(A) The letter bound both parties to a unilateral contract as soon as Slicker mailed it.

(B) Mailing of the letter by Slicker did not, of itself, prevent a subsequent effective revocation by Duffer of his offer.

(C) The letter bound both parties to a bilateral contract, but only when received by Duffer on November 10.

(D) Regardless of whether Duffer's offer had proposed a unilateral or a bilateral contract, the letter was an effective acceptance upon receipt, if not upon dispatch.


\section{8} What is the probable legal effect of Koolcat's conversation with Slicker and report that he (Koolcat) had sold his Sujocki to Duffer on November 10 ?

(A) This report had no legal effect because Duffer's offer was irrevocable until November 12.

(B) Unless a contract had already been formed between Slicker and Duffer, Koolcat's report to Slicker operated to terminate Slicker's power of accepting Duffer's offer.

(C) This report had no legal effect because the offer had been made by a prospective buyer (Duffer) rather than a prospective seller.

(D) Koolcat's conversation with Slicker on November 11 terminated Duffer's original offer and operated as an offer by Koolcat to buy Slicker's Sujocki for \$ 950$.



\section{Questions 9-10} are based on the following fact situation:

Tortfeasor tortiously injured Victim in an auto accident. While Victim was recovering in Hospital, Tortfeasor's liability insurer, Insurer, settled with Victim for \$ 5,000$. Victim gave Insurer a signed release and received a signed memorandum wherein Insurer promised to pay Victim \$ 5,000$ by check within 30 days. When Victim left Hospital two days later, Hospital demanded payment of its \$ 4,000$ stated bill. Victim thereupon gave Hospital his own negotiable promissory note for \$ 4,000$, payable to Hospital's order in 30 days, and also, as security, assigned to Hospital the Insurer settlement memorandum. Hospital promptly assigned for value the settlement memorandum and negotiated the note to Holder, who took the note as a holder in due course. Subsequently, Victim misrepresented to Insurer that he had lost the settlement memorandum and needed another. Insurer issued another memorandum identical to the first, and Victim assigned it to $\mathrm{ABC}$ Furniture to secure a \$ 5,000$ credit sale contract. $\mathrm{ABC}$ immediately notified Insurer of this assignment. Later it was discovered that Hospital had mistakenly overbilled Victim by the amount of \$ 1,000$ and that Tortfeasor was an irresponsible minor.


\section{9} If Victim starts an action against Insurer 40 days after the insurance settlement agreement, can Victim recover?

(A) Yes, because his attempted assignments of his claim against Insurer were ineffective, inasmuch as Insurer's promise to pay "by check" created a right in Victim that was too personal to assign.

(B) No, because he no longer has possession of Insurer's written memorandum.

(C) No, because Tortfeasor's minority and irresponsibility vitiated the settlement agreement between Victim and Insurer.

(D) No, because he has made at least one effective assignment of his claim against Insurer, and Insurer has notice thereof.


\section{10} In view of Tortfeasor's age and irresponsibility when Insurer issued his liability policy, can Holder and $\mathrm{ABC}$ Furniture recover on their assignments?

(A) Neither can recover because Victim, the assignor, is a third-party beneficiary of the liability policy, whose rights thereon can be no better than Tortfeasor's.

(B) Neither can recover unless Insurer knowingly waived the defense of Tortfeasor's minority and irresponsibility.

(C) Neither can recover because the liability policy, and settlement thereunder, are unenforceable because of Tortfeasor's minority.

(D) Either Holder or ABC Furniture, depending on priority, can recover as 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

assignee (or subassignee) of Victim's claim because the latter arose from Insurer's settlement agreement, the latter agreement not being vitiated by Tortfeasor's minority and irresponsibility when he obtained the policy.

\section{Question 11}

On January 15, Carpenter agreed to repair Householder's house according to certain specifications and to have the work completed by April 1. On March 1, Householder's property was inundated by flood waters which did not abate until March 15. Householder could not get the house in a condition which would permit Carpenter to begin the repairs until March 31 . On that date Carpenter notified Householder that he would not repair the house.

Which one of the following facts, if it was the only one true and known to both parties on January 15, would best serve Carpenter as the basis for a defense in an action brought against him by Householder for breach of contract?

(A) Carpenter's busy schedule permitted him to work on Householder's house only during the month of March.

(B) Any delay in making the repairs would not seriously affect Householder's use of the property.

(C) The cost of making repairs was increasing at the rate of $3 \%$ a month.

(D) The area around Householder's property was frequently flooded during the month of March.

\section{Question 12}

In a telephone call on March 1, Adams, an unemployed, retired person, said to Dawes, "I will sell my automobile for \$ 3,000$ cash. I will hold this offer open through March 14." On March 12, Adams called Dawes and told her that he had sold the automobile to Clark. Adams in fact had not sold the automobile to anyone. On March 14, Dawes learned that Adams still owned the automobile, and on that date called Adams and said, "I' $\mathrm{m}$ coming over to your place with \$ 3,000$." Adams replied, "Don't bother. I won' $t$ deliver the automobile to you under any circumstances." Dawes protested, but made no further attempt to pay for or take delivery of the automobile.

In an action by Dawes against Adams for breach of contract, Dawes probably will:

(A) Succeed, because Adams had assured her that the offer would remain open through March 14.

(B) Succeed, because Adams had not in fact sold the automobile to Clark.

(C) Not succeed, because Dawes had not tendered the \$ 3,000$ to Adams on or before March 14.

(D) Not succeed, because on March 12, Adams had told Dawes that he had sold the automobile to Clark.

\section{Question 13}

Carver is a chemical engineer. She has no interest in or connection with Chemco. Carver noticed that Chemco's most recent publicly issued financial statement listed, as part of Chemco's assets, a large inventory of a certain special chemical compound. This asset was listed at a cost of \$ 100,000$, but Carver knew that the ingredients of the compound were in short supply and that the current market value of the inventory was in excess of \$ 1$ million. There was no current public quotation of the price of Chemco stock. The book value of Chemco stock, according to the statement, was \$ 5$ per share; its actual value was \$ 30$ per share.

Knowing these facts, Carver offered to purchase from Page at \$ 6$ per share the 1,000 shares of Chemco stock owned by Page. Page and Carver had not previously met. Page sold the stock to Carver for \$ 6$ per share.

If Page asserts a claim based on misrepresentation against Carver, will Page prevail? (A) Yes, because Carver knew that the value of the stock was greater than the price she offered.

(B) Yes, if Carver did not inform Page of the true value of the inventory.

(C) No, unless Carver told Page that the stock was not worth more than \$ 6$ per share.

(D) No, if Chemco's financial statement was available to Page.



\section{Questions 14-15} are based on the following fact situation:

In a written contract Singer agreed to deliver to Byer 500 described chairs at \$ 20$ each F.O.B. Singer's place of business. The contract provided that "neither party will assign this contract without the written consent of the other." Singer placed the chairs on board a carrier on January 30. On February 1, Singer said in a signed writing, "I hereby assign to Wheeler all my rights under the Singer-Byer contract." Singer did not request and did not get Byer's consent to this transaction. On February 2, the chairs, while in transit, were destroyed in a derailment of the carrier's railroad car.


\section{14} In an action by Wheeler against Byer, Wheeler probably will recover:
(A) \$ 10,000$, the contract price.
(B) The difference between the contract price and the market value of the chairs.
(C) Nothing, because the chairs had not been delivered.
(D) Nothing, because the Singer-Byer contract forbade an assignment.


\section{15} In an action by Byer against Singer for breach of contract, Byer probably will:

(A) Succeed, because the carrier will be deemed to be Singer's agent. (B) Succeed, because the risk of loss was on Singer.

(C) Not succeed, because of impossibility of performance.

(D) Not succeed, because the risk of loss was on Byer.

\section{Question 16}

After several days of negotiations, Ohner wrote to Plummer: "Will pay you \$ 3,000$ if you will install new plumbing in my office building according to the specifications I have sent you. I must have your reply by March 30 ." Plummer replied by a letter that Ohner received on March 15: "Will not do it for less than \$ 3,500$." On March 20, Plummer wrote to Ohner: "Have changed my mind. I will do the work for \$ 3,000$. Unless I hear from you to the contrary, I will begin work on April 5." Ohner received this letter on March 22 but did not reply to it. Plummer, without Ohner's knowledge, began the work on April 5.

Which of the following best characterizes the legal relationship between Ohner and Plummer as of April 5?

(A) A contract was formed on March 20 when Plummer posted his letter.

(B) A contract was formed on March 22 when Ohner received Plummer's letter.

(C) A contract was formed on April 5 when Plummer began work.

(D) There was no contract between the parties as of April 5.



\section{Questions 17-18} are based on the following fact situation:

On January 15 , in a signed writing, Artisan agreed to remodel Ohner's building according to certain specifications, Ohner to pay the agreed price of \$ 5,000$ to Artisan's niece, Roberta Neese, as a birthday present. Neese did not learn of the agreement until her birthday on May 5. Before they signed the writing, Artisan and Ohner had orally agreed that their "written agreement will be null and void unless Ohner is able to obtain a \$ 5,000$ loan from the First National Bank before January 31."


\section{17} For this question only, assume that Ohner was unable to obtain the loan and, on January 31, phoned Artisan and told him, "Don't begin the work. The deal is off." In an action for breach of contract brought against Ohner by the proper party, will Ohner be successful in asserting as a defense his inability to obtain a loan?

(A) Yes, because obtaining a loan was a condition precedent to the existence of an enforceable contract.

(B) Yes, because the agreement about obtaining a loan is a modification of a construction contract and is not required to be in writing.

(C) No, because the agreement about obtaining a loan contradicts the express and implied terms of the writing.

(D) No, because Ohner is estopped to deny the validity of the written agreement.


\section{18} For this question only, assume that Ohner obtained the loan, that Artisan completed the remodeling on May 1, and that on May 3 , at Artisan's request, Ohner paid the \$ 5,000$ to Artisan. If Neese learns of Ohner's payment to Artisan on May 5, at the same time she learns of the written Artisan-Ohner contract, will she succeed in an action against Ohner for \$ 5,000$ ?

(A) Yes, because she is an intended beneficiary of the written Artisan-Ohner contract.

(B) Yes, because the written Artisan-Ohner contract operated as an assignment to Neese, and Artisan thereby lost whatever rights he may have had to the \$ 5,000$. (C) No, because Neese had not furnished any consideration to support Ohner's promise to pay \$ 5,000$ to her.

(D) No, because on May 3, Artisan and Ohner effectively modified their written contract, thereby depriving Neese of whatever rights she may have had under that contract.



\section{Questions 19-20} are based on the following fact situation:

When Esther, Gray's 21-year-old daughter, finished college, Gray handed her a signed memorandum stating that if she would go to law school for three academic years, he would pay her tuition, room, and board, and would "give her a \$ 1,000$ bonus" for each "A" she got in law school. Esther's uncle, Miller, who was present on this occasion, read the memorandum and thereupon said to Esther, "and if he doesn't pay your expenses, I will." Gray paid her tuition, room, and board for her first year but died just before the end of that year. Subsequently, Esther learned that she had received two "As" in the second semester. The executor of Gray's estate has refused to pay her anything for the two "As" and has told her that the estate will no longer pay her tuition, room, and board in law school.


\section{19} In an action by Esther against Miller on account of the executor's repudiation of Gray's promise to pay future tuition, room, and board, which of the following would be Miller's strongest defense?
(A) The parties did not manifestly intend a contract.
(B) Gray's death terminated the agree- ment.
(C) The agreement was oral.
(D) The agreement was divisible.


\section{20} In an action against Gray's estate for \$ 2,000$ on account of the two "As," if the only defense raised is lack of consideration, Esther probably will: (A) Succeed under the doctrine of promissory estoppel.

(B) Succeed on a theory of bargained-for exchange for her father's promise.

(C) Not succeed, because the \$ 1,000$ for each "A" was promised only as a bonus.

(D) Not succeed, because Esther was already legally obligated to use her best efforts in law school.

\section{Question 21}

Zeller contracted in writing to deliver to Baker 100 bushels of wheat on August 1 at \$ 3.50$ per bushel. Because his suppliers had not delivered enough wheat to him by that time, Zeller on August 1 had only 95 bushels of wheat with which to fulfill his contract with Baker.

If Zeller tenders 95 bushels of wheat to Baker on August 1, and Baker refuses to accept or pay for any of the wheat, which of the following best states the legal relationship between Zeller and Baker?

(A) Zeller has a cause of action against Baker, because Zeller has substantially performed his contract.

(B) Zeller is excused from performing his contract because of impossibility of performance.

(C) Baker has a cause of action against Zeller for Zeller's failure to deliver 100 bushels of wheat.

(D) Baker is obligated to give Zeller a reasonable time to attempt to obtain the other five bushels of wheat.



\section{Questions 22-23} are based on the following fact situation:

On May 1, Selco and Byco entered into a written agreement in which Selco agreed to fabricate and sell to Byco 10,000 specially designed brake linings for a new type of power brake manufactured by Byco. The contract provided that Byco would pay half of the purchase price on May 15 in order to give Selco funds to "tool up" for the work; that Selco would deliver 5,000 brake linings on May 31; that Byco would pay the balance of the purchase price on June 5; and that Selco would deliver the balance of the brake linings on June 30 .

On May 10, Selco notified Byco that it was doubtful whether Selco could perform because of problems encountered in modifying its production machines to produce the brake linings. On May 15, however, Selco assured Byco that the production difficulties had been overcome, and Byco paid Selco the first $50 \%$ installment of the purchase price. Selco did not deliver the first 5,000 brake linings on May 31 , or at any time thereafter; and on June 10, Selco notified Byco that it would not perform the contract.


\section{22} Which of the following correctly states Byco's rights and obligations immediately after receipt of Selco's notice on May 10?

(A) Byco can treat the notice as an anticipatory repudiation, and has a cause of action on May 10 for breach of the entire contract.

(B) Byco can treat the notice as an anticipatory repudiation, and can sue at once to enjoin an actual breach by Selco on May 31.

(C) Byco has no cause of action for breach of contract, but can suspend its performance and demand assurances that Selco will perform.

(D) Byco has no cause of action for breach of contract, and must pay the installment of the purchase price due on May 15 to preserve its rights under the contract.


\section{23} Which of the following is not a correct statement of the parties' legal status 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

immediately after Selco's notice on June 10 ?

(A) Byco has a cause of action for total breach of contract because of Selco's repudiation, but that cause of action will be lost if Selco retracts its repudiation before Byco changes its position or manifests to Selco that Byco considers the repudiation final.

(B) Byco can bring suit to rescind the contract even if it elects to await Selco's performance for a commercially reasonable time.

(C) Byco can await performance by Selco for a commercially reasonable time, but if Byco awaits performance beyond that period, it cannot recover any resulting damages that it reasonably could have avoided.

(D) Byco has a cause of action for breach of contract that it can successfully assert only after it has given Selco a commercially reasonable time to perform.



\section{Questions 24-25} are based on the following fact situation:

The Kernel Corporation, through its president, Demeter Gritz, requested from Vault Finance, Inc., a short-term loan of \$ 100,000$. On April 1, Gritz and Vault's loan officer agreed orally that Vault would make the loan on the following terms: (1) the loan would be repaid in full on or before the following July 1 and would carry interest at an annual rate of 15\% (a lawful rate under the applicable usury law); and (2) Gritz would personally guarantee repayment. The loan was approved and made on April 5. The only document evidencing the loan was a memorandum, written and supplied by Vault and signed by Gritz for Kernel, that read in its entirety:

\section{April 5}

In consideration of a loan advanced on this date, Kernel Corporation hereby promises to pay Vault Finance, Inc., \$ 100,000$ on September 1.

Kernel Corporation
by /s/ Demeter Gritz
Demeter Gritz, President

Kernel Corporation did not repay the loan on or before July 1, although it had sufficient funds to do so. On July 10, Vault sued Kernel as principal debtor and Gritz individually as guarantor for \$ 100,000$, plus $15 \%$ interest from April 5.


\section{24} At the trial, can Vault prove Kernel's oral commitment to repay the loan on or before July 1 ?

(A) Yes, because the oral agreement was supported by an independent consideration.

(B) Yes, because evidence of the parties' negotiations is relevant to their contractual intent concerning maturity of the debt.

(C) No, because such evidence is barred by the preexisting duty rule.

(D) No, because such evidence contradicts the writing and is barred by the parol evidence rule.


\section{25} At the trial, can Vault prove Gritz's oral promise to guarantee the loan?

(A) Yes, because Gritz signed the memorandum.

(B) Yes, because, as president of the debtor-company, Gritz is a third-party beneficiary of the loan.

(C) No, because there was no separate consideration for Gritz's promise.

(D) No, because such proof is barred by the Statute of Frauds. 

\section{Question 26}

Osif owned Broadacres in fee simple. For a consideration of \$ 5,000$, Osif gave Bard a written option to purchase Broadacres for \$ 300,000$. The option was assignable. For a consideration of \$ 10,000$, Bard subsequently gave an option to Cutter to purchase Broadacres for \$ 325,000$. Cutter exercised his option.

Bard thereupon exercised his option. Bard paid the agreed price of \$ 300,000$, and took title to Broadacres by deed from Osif. Thereafter, Cutter refused to consummate his purchase.

Bard brought an appropriate action against Cutter for specific performance, or, if that should be denied, then for damages. Cutter counterclaimed for return of the \$ 10,000$.

In this action, the court will:
(A) Grant money damages only to Bard.
(B) Grant specific performance to Bard.
(C) Grant Bard only the right to retain the \$ 10,000$.
(D) Require Bard to refund the \$ 10,000$ to Cutter.



\section{Questions 27-28} are based on the following fact situation:

Mater, a wealthy widow, wishing to make a substantial and potentially enduring gift to her beloved adult stepson, Prodigal, established with the Vault Savings and Loan Association a passbook savings account by an initial deposit of \$ 10,000$.


\section{27} For this question only, assume the following facts. The passbook was issued solely in Prodigal's name; but Mater retained possession of it, and Prodigal was not then informed of the savings account. Subsequently, Mater became disgusted with Prodigal's behavior and decided to give the same savings account solely to her beloved adult daughter Distaff. As permitted by the rules of Vault Savings and Loan, Mater effected this change by agreement with Vault. This time she left possession of the passbook with Vault. Shortly thereafter, Prodigal learned of the original savings account in his name and the subsequent switch to Distaff's name.

If Prodigal now sues Vault Savings and Loan for \$ 10,000$ plus accrued interest, will the action succeed?
(A) Yes, because Prodigal was a third- party intended beneficiary of the original Mater-Vault deposit agree- ment.
(B) Yes, because Prodigal was a construc- tive assignee of Mater's claim, as depositor, to the savings account.
(C) No, because Prodigal never obtained possession of the passbook.
(D) No, because Prodigal's right, if any, to the funds on deposit was effectively abrogated by the second Mater-Vault deposit agreement.


\section{28} For this question only, assume the following facts. The passbook was issued by Vault to Mater solely in her own name. That same day, disinterested witnesses being present, she handed the passbook to Prodigal and said, "As a token of my love and affection for you, I give you this \$ 10,000$ savings account." Shortly thereafter, she changed her mind and wrote Prodigal, "I hereby revoke my gift to you of the \$ 10,000$ savings account with Vault Savings and Loan Association. Please return my passbook immediately. Signed: Mater." Prodigal received this letter but ignored it, and Mater died unexpectedly a few days later.

In litigation between Prodigal and Mater's estate, which of the following is a correct statement of the parties' rights with respect to the money on deposit with Vault? (A) The estate prevails, because Mater's gift to Prodigal was revocable and was terminated by her death.

(B) The estate prevails, because Mater's gift to Prodigal was revocable and was terminated by her express revocation.

(C) Prodigal prevails, because he took Mater's claim to the savings account by a gratuitous but effective and irrevocable assignment from Mater.

(D) Prodigal prevails, because his failure to reject the gift, even if the assignment was revocable, created an estoppel against Mater and her estate.



\section{Questions 29-30} are based on the following fact situation:

On October 1, Toy Store, Inc., entered into a written contract with Fido Factory, Inc., for the purchase at \$ 20$ per unit of 1,000 mechanical dogs, to be specially manufactured by Fido according to Toy Store's specifications. Fido promised to deliver all of the dogs "not later than November 15, for the Yule shopping season,"' and Toy Store promised to pay the full \$ 20,000$ price upon delivery. In order to obtain operating funds, Fido as borrower entered into a written loan agreement on October 5 with the High Finance Company. In relevant part, this agreement recited, "Fido Factory hereby transfers and assigns to High Finance its (Fido Factory's) October 1 mechanical dog contract with Toy Store, as security for a 50 -day loan of \$ 15,000$, the advance and receipt of which are hereby acknowledged by Fido Factory. ..." No copy of this agreement, or statement relating to it, was filed in an office of public record.

On October 15, Fido notified Toy Store, "We regret to advise that our master shaft burned out last night because our night supervisor let the lubricant level get too low. We have just fired the supervisor, but the shaft cannot be repaired or replaced until about January 1. We can guarantee delivery of your order, however, not later than January 20." Toy Store rejected this proposal as unacceptable and immediately contracted with the only other available manufacturer to obtain the 1,000 dogs at \$ 30$ per unit by November 15 .


\section{29} For this question only, assume that on November 1, Toy Store sues Fido for damages and alleges the above facts, except those relating to the Fido-High Finance loan agreement. Upon Fido's motion to dismiss the complaint, the court should:

(A) Sustain the motion, because Fido on October 15 stated its willingness, and gave assurance of its ability, to perform the contract in January.

(B) Sustain the motion, because Toy Store's lawsuit is premature in any case until after November 15.

(C) Deny the motion, because Toy Store's complaint alleges an actionable tort by Fido.

(D) Deny the motion, because Toy Store's complaint alleges an actionable breach of contract by Fido.


\section{30} For this question only, assume that by November 16, Fido, without legal excuse, has delivered no dogs, and that Toy Store has brought no action against Fido. In an action brought on November 16 by Toy Store against High Finance Company because of Fido's default, Toy Store can recover:

(A) Nothing, because the October 5 assignment by Fido to High Finance of Fido's contract with Toy Store was only an assignment for security.

(B) Nothing, because no record of the October 5 transaction between Fido and High Finance was publicly filed.

(C) \$ 10,000$ in damages, because Toy Store was a third-party intended beneficiary of the October 5 transaction between Fido and High Finance. (D) \$ 10,000$ in damages, because the October 5 transaction between Fido and High Finance effected, with respect to Toy Store as creditor, a novation of debtors.

\section{Question 31}

In March, when Ohm was 17, Stereo delivered to $\mathrm{Ohm}$ a television set. At that time Ohm agreed in writing to pay \$ 400$ for the set on July 1 , when he would reach his 18 th birthday. Eighteen is the applicable statutory age of majority, and on that date $\mathrm{Ohm}$ was to receive the proceeds of a trust. On July 1, when the reasonable value of the television set was \$ 250$, Ohm sent Stereo a signed letter stating, "I'll only pay you \$ 300$. That is all the set is worth."

In an action against $\mathrm{Ohm}$ for money damages on July 2 , what is the maximum amount that Stereo will be entitled to recover?
(A) Nothing.
(B) \$ 250$, the reasonable value of the set.
(C) \$ 300$, the amount $\mathrm{Ohm}$ promised to pay in his letter of July 1.
(D) \$ 400$, the original sale price.

\section{Question 32}

Ann leased commercial property to Brenda for a period of 10 years. The lease contained the following provision: "No subleasing or assignment will be permitted unless with the written consent of the lessor." One year later, Brenda assigned all interest in the lease to Carolyn, who assumed and agreed to perform the lessee's obligations under the terms of the lease. Ann learned of the assignment and wrote to Brenda that she had no objection to the assignment to Carolyn and agreed to accept rent from Carolyn instead of Brenda. Thereafter, Carolyn paid rent to Ann for a period of five years. Carolyn then defaulted and went into bankruptcy. In an appropriate action, Ann sued Brenda for rent due. If Ann loses, it will be because there was:
(A) Laches.
(B) An accord and satisfaction.
(C) A novation.
(D) An attornment.



\section{Questions 33-34} are based on the following fact situation:

Furrow leased in writing a 100 -acre farm from Quark for five years at \$ 2,000$ per year, with an option to purchase "five acres of the land for \$ 10,000$ cash" at the end of the lease term. Before the lease was executed, Quark orally promised to have a five-acre parcel surveyed before the end of the lease term. Furrow took possession of the farm and paid the rent for five years. During the fifth year, having decided that he would exercise the purchase option, Furrow planted several fruit trees and built a large grain silo on the property. At the end of the term, Furrow tendered Quark \$ 10,000$ and demanded a conveyance, but Quark repudiated the option agreement and retook possession of the farm. He had never had the five-acre parcel surveyed.


\section{33} In an action by Furrow against Quark for specific performance of the option agreement, which of the following is Quark's best defense?
(A) The option part of the agreement is unenforceable because it lacked a separate consideration.
(B) The description of the property to be sold in the parties' written agreement is too indefinite to permit the remedy sought.
(C) Quark's failure to have the five-acre parcel surveyed was failure of a condition precedent to his own duty of performance. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

(D) The option part of the agreement is unenforceable under the parol evidence rule.


\section{34} Assume for this question only that Quark is not liable to Furrow for breach of a landsale contract. In an action by Furrow against Quark for the reasonable value of the improvements that Furrow added to the farm, which of the following theories would best support Furrow's claim?

(A) Quasi-contract, for benefits unofficiously and non-gratuitously conferred upon Quark by Furrow. (B) Tort, for conversion by Quark in retaking possession of the improvements.

(C) Breach of trust by Quark as trustee of a resulting trust of the improvements.

(D) Breach by Quark of an implied-in-fact promise (manifested by his retaking possession of the farm and improvements) to compensate Furrow for the improvements. 

\section{CONTRACTS ANSWERS}

\section{Answer to Question 1}

(C) Although this assignment of rights would result in the performance of personal services, the nature of the personal service described here appears to be routine rather than unique and thus the duty is delegable. Note also that the contract contains no language restricting assignment or delegation. (Note also that language "assigning the contract" may be construed to include a delegation of duties.) Thus, Boone (the obligee) would be required to accept performance by the delegate (Coot). Therefore, (B), which states that Boone may refuse to accept such performance, is incorrect. Because the contract does not prohibit Addie's assignment thereof, (A) incorrectly states that such assignment renders Addie in breach. (D) is incorrect because a novation substitutes a new party for an original party to the contract, and requires the assent of all parties, and completely releases the original party. The facts here do not indicate that Boone agreed to any such new arrangement.

\section{Answer to Question 2}

(A) The delegator remains personally liable on his contract, even if the delegate has expressly assumed the duties. Thus, Addie remains liable for any defective performance of the painting. (B) and (C) each are based on the incorrect assumption that the obligee is required to look to the delegate for a remedy in the event of defective performance. As explained above, the obligee (Boone) may hold the delegator (Addie) liable on the contract. (D) is incorrect because the facts do not indicate that Boone accepted performance by a new party with knowledge that there was an intent to substitute that party for an original party to the contract. Therefore, Boone did not waive his rights against Addie.

\section{Answer to Question 3}

(C) Because Johnston promised to pay without inspecting the goods, he had no right to inspect prior to payment. If payment is due before inspection, the fact that the goods are defective does not excuse nonpayment, unless the defect appears without inspection or there is fraud in the transaction. However, the buyer is not prevented from inspecting the goods after making payment, and thereafter pursuing all available remedies for defective performance. (D) is incorrect because, as explained above, nothing prevents a buyer from promising to pay prior to inspection. (A) is incorrect because the contractual provision at issue does not constitute an acceptance. There is no acceptance until Johnston has had an opportunity to inspect. (B) also incorrectly implies that the provision effectuates a waiver of the buyer's rights.

\section{Answer to Question 4}

(C) Where the seller does not deliver or the buyer properly rejects or revokes acceptance of tendered goods, the buyer's basic remedy is the difference between the contract price and either the market price or the cost of buying replacement goods (cover). (C) reflects the latter measure of damages. (A) is incorrect because specific performance is only available where the goods are unique or in other proper circumstances. Here, the wool does not appear to be unique. (B) is incorrect because it sets forth a measure of damages that is properly applicable where the buyer accepts goods that breach one of the seller's warranties; here, the goods have not been accepted. (D) is incorrect because, as explained in the answer to the preceding question, agreeing to pay before inspection does not waive any of the buyer's rights. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

\section{Answer to Question 5}

(B) Where the buyer has paid for goods which are nonconforming, and the seller has refused the buyer's offer to restore the goods and the buyer's demand for repayment, the buyer may resell the goods and credit the proceeds to the amount owed by the seller (under the same rules that apply to a seller's resale of wrongfully rejected goods). The buyer may sell at either a public or private sale; but if it is a private sale, reasonable advance notice must be given to the seller. [U.C.C. §§2-711(3), 2-706(2), (3)] (A) and (C) each incorrectly limit the sale to being either private or public. (D) incorrectly states that the sale is not permitted at all.

\section{Answer to Question 6}

(D) Generally, offers are revocable unless the offeror receives consideration to keep the offer open. If a merchant signs a written offer giving assurances that it will be held open, the offer is irrevocable for the stated period or for a reasonable time if no period is stated. Here, the language at issue would probably be interpreted as a promise not to revoke; however, the offeror (Duffer) is not a merchant (i.e., he does not deal in goods of the kind being sold). Thus, in the absence of consideration being given for this promise, it remains revocable. (A) is incorrect because, although there is a sale of goods, neither of the parties is a merchant, and hence, the "firm offer" provision of the U.C.C. does not apply. (B) makes no sense because the very terms of the offer state that Slicker can accept prior to noon on November 12. (C) is incorrect because no consideration was given for the promise not to countermand.

\section{Answer to Question 7}

(B) Duffer's letter would be construed as an offer that unambiguously calls for completion of performance, rather than a promise, as the only manner of acceptance. This would be an offer for a unilateral contract. An offer for a unilateral contract cannot be accepted by promising to perform. Hence, Slicker's letter of October 9 by itself wouldn't prevent Duffer from revoking his offer. (A) is wrong because a unilateral contract is created only on completion of performance of the bargained-for act, not by simply mailing a purported acceptance. (C) is wrong because the offer was for a unilateral contract. (D) is wrong because, as a response to an offer to enter into a unilateral contract, the promise to perform had no legal effect regardless of when it was received.

\section{Answer to Question 8}

(B) An offer is effectively revoked when the offeree acquires knowledge that the offeror has made an inconsistent contract with another, whether such knowledge is obtained from the offeror or some independent source. (A) is wrong because there was no consideration for the promise to keep the offer open. (C) makes no sense. Whether Slicker's power of accepting the offer is terminated does not depend on the fact that the offer was made by a prospective buyer rather than a prospective seller. (D) is incorrect insofar as it states that the November 11 conversation was also an offer to purchase; the wording used by Koolcat ("would you consider ...") seems too preliminary in nature and thus more an invitation than an offer.

\section{Answer to Question 9}

(D) An assignor may not enforce rights against an obligor that have been previously assigned, as is the case here. An assignment establishes privity of contract between the obligor and the assignee while extinguishing privity between the obligor and assignor. Thus, the assignee replaces the assignor as the real party in interest, and the assignee alone is entitled to performance under the contract. (A) is incorrect because a promise to pay by check does not create a right too personal to assign. An attempted assignment is invalid where the rights "assigned" would result in the obligor having to perform unique personal services to someone other than the original obligee. Paying by check does not constitute such a personal service. (B) is incorrect because possession of the memorandum of settlement has no bearing on the effectiveness of an assignment. (C) is wrong because minority does not vitiate a contract, but makes it voidable by the minor. Furthermore, insurance contracts usually cannot be voided by minors.

\section{Answer to Question 10}

(D) Insurance contracts usually cannot be voided by infants. Thus, the liability insurance, and settlement agreement arising out of it, are valid. (A) seems to be based on the incorrect assumption that, because of Tortfeasor's minority at the time the liability policy was issued, Insurer might not be bound on the contract of insurance. Actually, the effect of a contract entered into between an infant and an adult is that the contract is voidable by the infant but binding on the adult. Thus, there is no question that Tortfeasor has rights under the liability policy. (B) assumes that Tortfeasor's minority constitutes a defense. As explained above, this is incorrect. (C) is incorrect for the same reason.

\section{Answer to Question 11}

(A) If both parties knew of Carpenter's schedule limitation at the time the contract was entered into, the supervening flood would discharge the duty to perform by impossibility, because no one could have performed during the month of March. The requirement that the impossibility must arise after the contract was entered into has been met. Since the impossibility is temporary, it could be argued that the impossibility only suspends contractual duties rather than discharging them. However, if it was specifically understood that the only time for performance was the month of March, then the contract should be discharged by impossibility. (B) is wrong because this would actually argue for a continuing duty on the part of Carpenter to make the repairs. (C) is wrong because it would not be relevant. With no additional facts, Carpenter could have begun performance in January and incurred no extra costs. (D) is wrong because it does not speak to whether Carpenter could have performed either before or after March.

\section{Answer to Question 12}

(D) On March 12, Adams terminated his offer by communicating his revocation to the offeree before Dawes had accepted. Since the revocation was directly communicated to the offeree, it was immediately effective. Because the offer was revoked, Dawes no longer had any power of acceptance. (A) is wrong because Adams's assurance did not create an option contract. Dawes gave no value for an option contract, and Adams did not assure Dawes that the offer would remain open to her personally until March 14, but only that the offer would remain open generally until that date. (B) is wrong because Adams's failure to sell the car is of no import. Adams's statement clearly communicated the intent to revoke the offer and thus terminated the offer to Dawes. (C) is wrong because even if Dawes had tendered the \$ 3,000$ on March 13, Adams need not have conveyed the automobile because he had already terminated the offer.

\section{Answer to Question 13}

(C) Carver had no duty to disclose to Page the true value of the stock. If, however, Carver had represented that the stock was not worth more than \$ 6$ a share, this would have constituted material misrepresentation and no contract would result. (A) is wrong because Carver's knowledge of the true value did not create a duty to disclose that knowledge. (B) is wrong because there was no 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

duty to inform Page of the true value of the inventory. (D) is wrong because if Carver had misrepresented the value of the stock, availability of Chemco's financial statement to Page would not relieve Carver of liability.

\section{Answer to Question 14}

(A) Since the contract stipulated F.O.B. Singer's place of business, the risk of loss passed to Byer on January 30 when Singer placed the chairs on board a carrier. Thus, the loss of the chairs must be borne by Byer, and Singer is entitled to the contract price. Wheeler, as Singer's assignee, is entitled to the contract price. (B) is wrong as this is the measure where the buyer refuses the goods and the seller then resells them to someone else. Here, since the chairs do not exist any more, the measure of damages would be the entire contract price. (C) is wrong because the contract stipulated F.O.B. Singer's place of business. If it had not so stated, the statement in (C) would be correct. (D) is wrong because, absent circumstances suggesting otherwise, a clause prohibiting the assignment of "the contract" will be construed as barring only the delegation of the assignor's duties, not the assignment of the right to receive payment.

\section{Answer to Question 15}

(D) In a contract that specifies that delivery is F.O.B. (free on board) a particular point, the F.O.B. point is the delivery point. If the contract is F.O.B. the seller's place of shipment, the seller need only, at his expense and risk, put the goods in the hands of the carrier. If the contract is F.O.B. destination, the seller must, at his expense and risk, tender delivery of the goods at the designated destination. Here, the risk of loss had passed to Byer because the contract specifically stated that delivery was to be F.O.B. Singer's place of business. (A) and (B) are incorrect because, as explained above, the terms of the contract establish that the risk of loss was not on Singer. (C) is wrong because Singer had already performed by delivering the chairs to the carrier.

\section{Answer to Question 16}

(D) No contract was formed between the parties because Plummer gave Ohner a counteroffer rather than an acceptance. If the language had been different, this might have been an acceptance conditioned on higher payment, but given the wording, there were no clear words of acceptance. The making of the counteroffer made acceptance of the original offer impossible, and since Ohner never accepted the counteroffer, no contract was formed between the parties. (A) is wrong because at that point Plummer no longer had power of acceptance on the original offer. (B) is wrong because if Plummer's writing had been a valid acceptance, it would have been valid upon posting under the mailbox rule. (C) is wrong because Ohner's original offer was to be accepted by reply rather than by conduct, and it terminated when Plummer made his counteroffer.

\section{Answer to Question 17}

(A) A condition precedent is one which must occur before an absolute duty of immediate performance arises in the other party. Here, because performance was expressly conditioned upon Ohner's obtaining a loan and since that loan was refused, no duty to perform exists. (B) is wrong because the agreement was made before the signing of the contract. (C) is wrong because the agreement does not contradict and is in addition to the meaning of the written contract. (D) is wrong because Ohner is not attempting to deny the validity of the written agreement.

\section{Answer to Question 18}

(D) Parties to a contract may modify it by mutual assent. While consideration is necessary to modify a contract, courts usually find consideration to be present in that each party has limited his right to enforce the original contract on its own terms. On May 3, the parties modified the original contract by making other arrangements for payment which were then met. This modification served to discharge the terms in the original contract regarding payment, so Neese has no claim to the \$ 5,000$. (A) is wrong because even though Neese was an intended beneficiary of the contract, her rights in it had not vested when the modification was made on May 3 , because she had not yet learned of the contract. (B) is wrong because the contract was not assigned to Neese. Rather, she was an intended beneficiary of the contract. (C) is wrong because an intended beneficiary need not furnish any consideration, so long as the original contract is supported by consideration.

\section{Answer to Question 19}

(C) Miller's strongest argument is that since the contract, by its own terms, could not be performed within a year, it was subject to the Statute of Frauds and should have been in writing. Since it was not, it is void under the Statute of Frauds. (A) would be a possible argument, but it is not as strong as the Statute of Frauds argument. Further, it would probably fail as there does appear to be manifest intent to contract. (B) is wrong because if there was a valid contract, it would not have been terminated by Gray's death. Rather, Gray's estate would have been liable for the monies owed. (D) is wrong because this was not a divisible contract.

\section{Answer to Question 20}

(B) Esther's argument would be that her hard work academically constituted her consideration for the agreement. It is not required that consideration be economic in nature. (A) is wrong because if the only defense is lack of consideration, Esther should keep arguing on contractual terms. Even in arguing under the doctrine of promissory estoppel, Esther would have to establish that she relied on the promise to her detriment. (C) is wrong because the "bonus" provision was an integral part of the contract. (D) is wrong because there is no legal duty to try one's hardest in academic pursuits, so Esther had no preexisting duty to excel.

\section{Answer to Question 21}

(C) Since Baker contracted for 100 bushels on August 1, Zeller had a contractual duty which was breached by the tendering of only 95 bushels. Baker has a cause of action for that breach. (A) is wrong because substantial performance does not excuse total performance of contractual duties. (B) is wrong because discharge by impossibility only occurs where impossibility is objective. The fact that Zeller only had 95 bushels created a subjective rather than an objective impossibility of performance, and thus did not excuse his breach. (D) is wrong because Baker was entitled to performance on August 1.

\section{Answer to Question 22}

(C) Under Article Two of the U.C.C., Selco's notice of May 10 would be considered an action which increases the risk of nonperformance, but does not clearly indicate that performance will not be forthcoming. Thus, it will not immediately be treated as a repudiation. The notice constitutes reasonable grounds for insecurity, entitling Byco to demand adequate assurance of due performance. Until Byco receives such assurance, it may suspend its own performance. (C) is the only answer embodying these principles. (A) and (B) are incorrect because they treat Selco's notice as an anticipatory repudiation. (D) is incorrect because it implies that Byco may not suspend its own performance until receipt of adequate assurances. 

\section{RELEASED QUESTIONS}

\section{Answer to Question 23}

(D) Selco's notice of June 10 made it clear that it was unable or unwilling to perform. In such circumstance, the aggrieved party may: (i) await performance for a commercially reasonable time; (ii) resort to any remedy for breach even though he has also urged the other party to perform; or (iii) suspend his own performance. The repudiating party may, at any time before his next performance is due, withdraw his repudiation unless the other party has canceled, materially changed her position in reliance on the repudiation, or otherwise indicated that she considers the repudiation final. From the foregoing, (A), (B), and (C) are clearly correct statements of the parties' legal status after June 10. (D) is an incorrect statement (and, thus, the correct answer) because, in actuality, Byco may assert its cause of action immediately, without giving Selco a commercially reasonable time to perform.

\section{Answer to Question 24}

(D) Where the parties to a contract express their agreement in a writing with the intent that it embody the full and final expression of their bargain, any other expressions made prior to or contemporaneous with the writing are inadmissible to vary the terms of the writing. This is the parol evidence rule. In this case, the memorandum clearly states the time of repayment as September 1 . If Vault were permitted to prove Kernel's oral commitment to repay the loan by July 1, this would be permitting the introduction of an expression prior to the writing, to vary the terms of the writing. (A) is incorrect because the parol evidence rule bars evidence of the oral agreement regardless of whether such agreement was supported by consideration. (B) is incorrect because the memorandum contains no ambiguity requiring further exposition of the parties' intent. (C) is incorrect because the preexisting duty rule relates to the issue of consideration, which is not at issue here.

\section{Answer to Question 25}

(D) The Statute of Frauds provides, inter alia, that a promise to answer for the debt or default of another must be in writing, except where the main purpose of the promisor is to serve a pecuniary interest of his own. Gritz's oral promise to guarantee the loan falls within the ambit of the Statute. Proof of such promise is barred, regardless of whether it was supported by separate consideration. Thus, (C) is incorrect. (A) is incorrect because Gritz signed the memorandum in his capacity as president of Kernel, not in an individual capacity. (B) is incorrect because Gritz, as president of Kernel, appears to be a mere employee, not someone with an ownership interest. There is no indication that Gritz will benefit from the loan.

\section{Answer to Question 26}

(B) Specific performance is appropriate where the legal remedy is inadequate. The legal remedy is inadequate where land is the subject of the contract. Although theoretically the seller of land will be fully compensated by money damages, the courts will usually grant specific performance to the seller, because land is considered unique. Thus, (A) is incorrect. Although Bard did not have title to Broadacres at the time he entered into the option contract with Cutter, he did own the option to buy the property. By exercising his option under his agreement with Osif, Bard could have obtained title to Broadacres. This, in turn, would have enabled Bard to convey to Cutter, if the latter exercised his option. Thus, Bard could have been compelled to perform. Because Bard is able to perform, and Cutter has exercised his option for purchase of the land, the case is an appropriate one for specific performance. Only (B) reaches this conclusion. 

\section{Answer to Question 27}

(D) Prodigal was a third-party beneficiary of the original Mater-Vault deposit agreement. A thirdparty beneficiary's rights do not vest (i.e., are modifiable) until he: manifests assent to the promise, brings suit to enforce the promise, or materially changes position in justifiable reliance on the promise. None of these vesting acts occurred before the modification here; in fact, Prodigal did not even know of the first contract until after the modification. Thus, his rights had not vested, and the terms of the second Mater-Vault deposit agreement control the disposition of the funds. Thus, (A) is incorrect. (B) is incorrect, because even if Prodigal were an assignee, this gratuitous assignment would be revocable. (C) is incorrect because Prodigal's rights could have vested without obtaining possession of the passbook.

\section{Answer to Question 28}

(C) This question involves an assignment. Generally, a gratuitous assignment is revocable. However, an assignment is irrevocable if a token chose involving the rights to be assigned (e.g., a savings account passbook) is delivered. In such a case, the assignor loses both the right and the power to revoke. (C) is the only alternative that embodies these principles. (A) and (B) are wrong because they are based on the revocability of the gift. (D) is wrong because there is no showing of detrimental reliance on the part of Prodigal. Thus, there is no estoppel.

\section{Answer to Question 29}

(D) Where the other party's words, actions, or circumstances make it clear that she is unwilling or unable to perform, the aggrieved party may, inter alia, resort to any remedy for breach. By informing Toy Store that the shaft cannot be repaired or replaced until January, Fido has made it clear that it is unable to perform by the agreed-upon date of November 15 . This is a material breach, because the contract indicates that delivery must be made in time for the Christmas shopping season. Thus, Toy Store is entitled to bring an action for damages. Thus, (B) is incorrect. (A) is incorrect because performance by January does not satisfy Fido's contractual undertaking. (C) is incorrect because, although Fido's night supervisor may have been negligent, it is clear that the appropriate cause of action against Fido is based on breach of its contractual agreement to deliver the dogs by November 15 .

\section{Answer to Question 30}

(A) An assignment of "the contract" or an assignment in similar general terms is an assignment of rights and, unless the language or the circumstances (as in an assignment for security) indicate the contrary, it is also a delegation of performance of the assignor's duties. Here, the October 5 assignment constituted an assignment for security, pursuant to which only Fido's rights, not its duties, under its contract with Toy Store were transferred. (B) is incorrect because even if the October 5 transaction had been filed, this would not change the fact that High Finance had not assumed Fido's duties under the contract. (C) is incorrect because Toy Store was never intended to benefit from this assignment for security. (D) is incorrect because High Finance was not substituted as a new party in place of Fido, nor did Toy Store consent thereto, both of which are requirements for a novation.

\section{Answer to Question 31}

(C) A contract entered into by a minor is voidable at his election. Upon reaching majority, the minor may affirm, i.e., choose to be bound by the contract. If he retains the benefits of the contract after reaching majority, he is liable for the fair market value of the goods. Here, Ohm, who contracted to pay for the television while still an infant, could have chosen to avoid the entire contract. However, upon reaching majority, Ohm not only retained the set, but expressly affirmed the contract to the extent of \$ 300$. Therefore, Stereo may recover against Ohm on the contract, but only to the extent that he has chosen to be bound ( \$ 300$ ). Thus, (C) is correct. (A) is wrong because Ohm affirmed the contract after reaching 18 and so must pay for the set. (B) is wrong because Ohm expressly agreed to pay more than fair market value. (D) is wrong because Ohm was not liable on the contract made while he was a minor.

\section{Answer to Question 32}

(C) If Ann loses it will be because there was a novation. A novation occurs when a new contract substitutes a new party to receive benefits and assume duties that had belonged to one of the original parties under the terms of an old contract. All the parties must agree to the substitution. A novation discharges the old contract. The elements of a valid novation are: (i) a previous valid contract; (ii) an agreement among all parties, including the new party to the new contract; (iii) the immediate extinguishment of contractual duties as between the original parties; and (iv) a valid and enforceable new contract. When lessor Ann wrote to Carolyn agreeing to accept rent and Carolyn began to do so, a new contract was formed, and Ann's rights against Brenda were extinguished. (A) is incorrect because laches is not available here. Laches is an equitable defense available when a party delays in bringing an equitable suit and the delay prejudices the defendant. The action here (for back rent) is at law, not equity. Moreover, nothing in the facts indicates that Ann delayed in bringing her action. Thus, laches is not available. (B) is incorrect because there was no accord and satisfaction. An accord occurs when the parties to a contract agree to substitute a different duty for an existing duty under the contract. Satisfaction occurs when the new duty is performed. There was no new duty here; rather, the parties agreed to substitute a new party under an existing contract (a novation). (D) is incorrect because attornment arises when the tenant agrees to accept a new landlord, and here Ann remained the landlord at all times.

\section{Answer to Question 33}

(B) Quark's best defense is that the description is too indefinite. Specific performance will not be granted unless there is an enforceable contract. For a contract for the sale of land to be enforceable, there must be an adequate description of the subject property. A description of "five acres" from a 100 -acre tract is not sufficient because it does not describe which five acres were intended. Thus, specific performance will not be available. (A) is incorrect because the option agreement was a term of the contract between Quark and Furrow. As such, it was fully supported by the consideration (payment of the rent) on the contract. It was not an additional agreement requiring further consideration. (C) is incorrect because a condition precedent is one that must occur before an absolute duty of immediate performance arises in the other party. The survey was not such a condition. When Furrow tendered the \$ 10,000$ for the five acres, Furrow had a duty to perform. Nowhere in the contract itself, or extrinsically, is there an indication that Furrow's option may not be exercised until a survey is made. (D) is incorrect because the option term of the contract is a part of the written contract and does not require proof via parol evidence.

\section{Answer to Question 34}

(A) Quasi-contract is the best theory because it is the standard remedy to avoid unjust enrichment in the case of a failed contract. Here, Furrow did not intend to gratuitously confer a benefit on Quark, but rather he conferred the benefit in reliance on Quark's promise that Quark would convey five acres to Furrow. If Quark were allowed to keep the benefits under such conditions, he would be unjustly enriched. (B) is incorrect because conversion deals with the wrongful taking or retention of chattels. Here, the fruit trees became part of the land and so were not chattels. Moreover, it was not wrongful for Quark to keep the trees since they were affixed to his property. (C) is incorrect because resulting trusts arise only where an attempted trust has failed. There was no attempt to create a trust here. (D) is incorrect because the general rule is that at the end of a lease, the owner is entitled to keep any improvements that the tenant has made that have become securely affixed to the premises. Retaining such property does not imply a promise to pay for the improvements.



\section{CRIMINAL LAW QUESTIONS}